---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
protected consumer described in subparagraph (A)(ii) that a consumer reporting agency remove a security freeze, and upon receiving sufficient proof of identification and sufficient proof of authority, the consumer reporting agency shall, free of charge, remove the security freeze not later than – (i) in the case of a request that is by toll-free telephone or secure electronic means, 1 hour after receiving the request for removal; or 38§ 605A - 15 U.S.C. § 1681c-1 (ii) in the case of a request that is by mail, 3 business days after receiving the request for removal. (D) Temporary removal of security freeze. Upon receiving a direct request from a protected consumer or a protected consumer’s representative under subparagraph (A)(i), if the protected consumer or protected consumer’s representative requests a temporary removal of a security freeze, the consumer reporting agency shall, in accordance with subparagraph (C), remove the security freeze for the period of time specified by the protected consumer or protected consumer’s representative. (k) Credit monitoring. (1) Definitions. In this subsection: (A) The term ‘active duty military consumer’ includes a member of the National Guard. (B) The term ‘National Guard’ has the meaning given the term in section 101(c) of title 10, United States Code. (2) Credit monitoring. A consumer reporting agency described in section 603(p) shall provide a free electronic credit monitoring service that, at a minimum, notifies a consumer of material additions or modifica - tions to the file of the consumer at the consumer reporting agency to any consumer who provides to the consumer reporting agency – (A) appropriate proof that the consumer is an active duty military consumer; and (B) contact information of the consumer. (3) Rulemaking. Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Federal Trade Commission shall promulgate regulations regarding the requirements of this subsection, which shall at a minimum include – (A) a definition of an electronic credit monitoring service and material additions or modifications to the file of a consumer; and (B) what constitutes appropriate proof. (4) Applicability. (A) Sections 616 and 617 shall not apply to any violation of this subsection. (B) This subsection shall be enforced exclusively under section 621 by the Federal agencies and Federal and State officials identified in that section. § 605B - 15 U.S.C. § 1681c-2 39 § 605B. Block of information resulting from identity theft [15 U.S.C. § 1681c-2] (a) Block. Except as otherwise provided in this section, a consumer reporting agency shall block the reporting of any information in the file of a consumer that the consumer identifies as information that resulted from an alleged identity theft, not later than 4 business days after the date of receipt by such agency of – (1) appropriate proof of the identity of the consumer; (2) a copy of an identity theft report; (3) the identification of such information by the consumer; and (4) a statement by the consumer that the information is not information relating to any transaction by the consumer. (b) Notification. A consumer reporting agency shall promptly notify the furnisher of information identified by the consumer under subsection (a) – (1) that the information may be a result of identity theft; (2) that an identity theft report has been filed; (3) that a block has been requested under this section; and (4) of the effective dates of the block. (c) Authority to Decline or Rescind (1) In general. A consumer reporting agency may decline to block, or may rescind any block, of information relating to a consumer under this section, if the consumer reporting agency reasonably determines that – (A) the information was blocked in error or a block was requested by the consumer in error; (B) the information was blocked, or a block was requested by the consumer, on the basis of a material misrepresentation of fact by
