---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/enforcement/competition-matters/2026/01/new-hsr-thresholds-filing-fees-2026
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:54:23.835354+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 09 Feb 2026 07:54:20 GMT
---
Each year, the Commission adjusts the minimum dollar jurisdictional thresholds that determine reportability under the Hart-Scott-Rodino (HSR) Act based on the change in gross national product in the prior year, as mandated by the HSR Act. The 2023 Consolidated Appropriations Act established tiers of filing fees based on the size of the transaction. The thresholds for these filing fees, as well as the fee amounts, are also adjusted annually along with the jurisdictional thresholds. See Section 7A(a)(2) and 15 U.S.C. 18a note of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. 18a. The Commission recently announced the updated jurisdictional thresholds and the updated fee schedule, published at 91 FR 2133, both of which will become effective on February 17, 2026. The following guidance should help parties determine the relevant thresholds and any resulting reporting obligations that apply based on when the filing is made, when the transaction closes, and when the thresholds adjust. This guidance should also help parties determine the correct filing fee. Rule 1: The correct threshold for determining reportability is the one in effect at the time of closing. The most significant threshold in determining reportability is the minimum size of transaction threshold. This is often referred to as the “$50 million (as adjusted)” threshold because it started at $50 million and is now adjusted annually. For 2026, that threshold will be $133.9 million. To determine reportability for a deal that will close around the time that the new threshold is effective, look to what the “$50 million (as adjusted)” threshold will be at the time of closing. For example, a deal valued at $130 million which will close on or after February 17, 2026, is not reportable because it is below the new minimum size of transaction threshold, even though it exceeds the current threshold of $126.4 million. Here are the new jurisdictional thresholds, effective on February 17, 2026: ORIGINAL THRESHOLD ADJUSTED THRESHOLD $10 million | $26.8 million | $50 million | $133.9 million | $100 million | $267.8 million | $110 million | $294.5 million | $200 million | $535.5 million | $500 million | $1.339 billion | $1 billion | $2.678 billion | Rule 2: The filing fee is determined by the value of the transaction at the time of filing. If you determine that a transaction is reportable, the filing fee is based on the filing fee threshold that is in effect when the waiting period begins (which is in most cases, the time of initial filing). Here are the new filing fee thresholds, as well as the adjusted fee amounts, revised in accordance with the 2023 Consolidated Appropriations Act and effective on February 17, 2026: ORIGINAL ADJUSTED SIZE OF TRANSACTION $30,000 | $35,000 | less than $189.6 million | $100,000 | $110,000 | not less than $189.6 million but less than $586.9 million | $250,000 | $275,000 | not less than $586.9 million but less than $1.174 billion | $400,000 | $440,000 | not less than $1.174 billion but less than $2.347 billion | $800,000 | $875,000 | not less than $2.347 billion but less than $5.869 billion | $2,250,000 | $2,460,000 | $5.869 billion or more | Rule 3: Notification thresholds for subsequent purchases adjust yearly, too. The HSR Rules contain additional notification thresholds that, in certain circumstances, relieve parties of the burden of making another filing every time additional voting shares of the same person are acquired. So, when HSR notification is filed, the acquiring person has one year from the end of the waiting period to cross the threshold stated in its HSR filing. Under Section 802.21, you must cross the threshold stated in the filing within one year after the end or termination of the waiting period, or you will have to file a new HSR notification in order to cross that threshold. Section 802.21 also specifies that once the filed-for
