---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-credit-bureau/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:17.924368+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:15 GMT
---
govern what can and cannot appear in your credit reports and who can request a copy of your credit report. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is one of the most important laws related to credit reporting. Some of its major rules include: Consumers can request a free copy of their credit report. You have the right to get a free copy from each credit bureau weekly through AnnualCreditReport.com. - Negative information, such as late payments, generally must be removed from credit reports after seven years. However, certain bankruptcies can remain for 10 years. - A person or company must have a "permissible purpose" to request a copy of a consumer's credit report. These include when a consumer gives their permission and when a creditor is making a lending decision after receiving an application. - Consumers have the right to dispute information in their credit reports. The credit bureau must investigate non-frivolous disputes and verify, correct or delete the disputed information. - The FCRA applies to all consumer reporting companies, not just the big three. Why Do I Have Different Credit Scores for Each Bureau? The credit score you see depends on three things: the credit scoring model, the credit report it's scoring and when the report is scored. Your credit scores could be different because: Your credit reports aren't identical. Data furnishers are not required to share information with the credit reporting agencies, and when they do, they can choose to report to one, two or all three. Those differences in the information that appears on your credit reports from Experian, TransUnion and Equifax can result in different credit scores. - You're comparing different types of credit scores. There are hundreds of different credit scoring models, if not more. FICO and VantageScoreÂ® develop scoring models that the credit bureaus use, and the credit bureaus also have their own scoring models. So, even if your three credit reports happen to be identical, you could have different scores depending on the model. - You're comparing scores from different time periods. If you use several programs to check your credit scores, you might find the scores differ even if they're based on the same credit bureau report and score model. This can happen if the programs don't update your credit report and score at the same time. - You won't necessarily know which type of credit score or credit report a lender will use. However, rest assured that the steps you take to improve one credit score will generally help your other credit scores as well. FAQs Monitor Your Experian Credit Report for Free You can check your Experian credit report for free with an Experian account. You'll also receive a FICOÂ® ScoreÎ based on your credit report and free credit report and score monitoring. The account also offers insight into your credit report, such as the factors that are helping or hurting your credit, and allows you to easily manage who can access your credit report. Whatâs on your credit report? Stay up to date with your latest credit informationâand get your FICOÂ® Score for free. Get your free reportNo credit card required About the author Louis DeNicola is freelance personal finance and credit writer who works with Fortune 500 financial services firms, FinTech startups, and non-profits to teach people about money and credit. His clients include BlueVine, Discover, LendingTree, Money Management International, U.S News and Wirecutter. Read more from Louis
