---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
a reseller from conducting a reinvestigation of a consumer dispute directly. (g) Dispute Process for Veteran’s Medical Debt (1) In general. With respect to a veteran’s medical debt, the veteran may submit a notice described in paragraph (2), proof of liability of the Department of Veterans Affairs for payment of that debt, or documentation that the Department of Veterans Affairs is in the process of making payment for authorized hospital care, medical services, or extended care services rendered to a consumer reporting agency or a reseller to dispute the inclusion of that debt on a consumer report of the veteran. (2) Notification to veteran. The Department of Veterans Affairs shall submit to a veteran a notice that the Department of Veterans Affairs has assumed liability for part or all of a veteran’s medical debt. 66§ 612 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681j (3) Deletion of information from file. If a consumer reporting agency receives notice, proof of liability, or documentation under paragraph (1), the consumer reporting agency shall delete all information relating to the veteran’s medical debt from the file of the veteran and notify the furnisher and the veteran of that deletion. § 612. Charges for certain disclosures [15 U.S.C. § 1681j] See also 12 CFR Part 1022, Subpart N (a) Free Annual Disclosure (1) Nationwide Consumer Reporting Agencies (A) In general. All consumer reporting agencies described in subsections (p) and (w) of section 603 shall make all disclosures pursuant to section 609 once during any 12-month period upon request of the consumer and without charge to the consumer. (B) Centralized source. Subparagraph (A) shall apply with respect to a consumer reporting agency described in section 603(p) only if the request from the consumer is made using the centralized source established for such purpose in accordance with section 211(c) of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003. (C) Nationwide Specialty Consumer Reporting Agency (i) In general. The Bureau shall prescribe regulations applicable to each consumer reporting agency described in section 603(w) to require the establishment of a streamlined process for consumers to request consumer reports under subparagraph (A), which shall include, at a minimum, the establishment by each such agency of a toll- free telephone number for such requests. (ii) Considerations. In prescribing regulations under clause (i), the Bureau shall consider – (I) the significant demands that may be placed on consumer reporting agencies in providing such consumer reports; (II) appropriate means to ensure that consumer reporting agencies can satisfactorily meet those demands, including the efficacy of a system of staggering the availability to consumers of such consumer reports; and (III) the ease by which consumers should be able to contact consumer reporting agencies with respect to access to such consumer reports. § 612 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681j 67 (iii)7 Date of issuance. The Bureau shall issue the regulations required by this subparagraph in final form not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003. (iv)7 Consideration of ability to comply. The regulations of the Bureau under this subparagraph shall establish an effective date by which each nationwide specialty consumer report - ing agency (as defined in section 603(w)) shall be required to comply with subsection (a), which effective date – (I) shall be established after consideration of the ability of each nationwide specialty consumer reporting agency to comply with subsection (a); and (II) shall be not later than 6 months after the date on which such regulations are issued in final form (or such additional period not to exceed 3 months, as the Bureau determines appropriate). (2) Timing. A consumer reporting agency shall provide a consumer report under paragraph (1) not later than 15 days after the date on which the request is received under paragraph (1). (3) Reinvestigations. Notwithstanding the time periods specified in
