---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/score-basics/what-affects-your-credit-scores/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:49.568502+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:22 GMT
---
your utilization below 30%. To calculate your credit utilization, divide your outstanding balance on each revolving account by its credit limit and multiply by 100 to express the result as a percentage. Credit scoring systems consider the utilization rate on each account individually and on the total of all accounts, as in the following example: Credit Limit | Balance | Utilization (Balance/Limit) | ---|---|---| Credit card 1 | $6,500 | $1,600 | 25% | ---|---|---|---| Credit card 2 | $4,800 | $1,500 | 31% | ---|---|---|---| Credit card 3 | $8,000 | $1,300 | 16% | ---|---|---|---| Total credit card utilization | $19,300 | $4,400 | 23% | ---|---|---|---| Learn more: Which Debts Should I Pay Off First to Improve My Credit? 3. Length of Credit History: 15% It makes intuitive sense that experience with credit accounts will tend to make you better at managing debt, and that's borne out by statistical analysis. For that reason, all else being equal, the longer your credit history, the higher your credit score will tend to be. The FICOÂ® Score evaluates your experience with credit by measuring the age of your oldest credit account, the age of your newest credit account and the average age of all your accounts. Note that closing accounts and paying off loans in full caps the payment history for those accounts, but it doesn't immediately cancel out their ages for purposes of calculating length of credit history. Accounts you close in good standing (meaning with no late payments) remain on your credit report for as long as 10 years. The length of your credit history accounts for 15% of your FICOÂ® Score. Key moves to make: If you don't have any credit accounts, you can start building a credit history by researching credit products well-suited to your needs. For example, you could consider applying for a secured credit card or asking to be added as an authorized user on the credit card of a trusted loved one. If you already have credit cards, keeping them open can help you maintain your credit history. That said, if a card charges annual fees or tempts you to overspend, closing it may be better for your finances overall. Learn more: Should You Cancel Your Unused Credit Cards or Keep Them? 4. Credit Mix: 10% The ability to successfully manage multiple debts and different credit types tends to benefit your credit scores. Credit scoring systems favor a mixture of installment debt (such as student loans, mortgages, car loans and personal loans) and revolving accounts (credit cards and lines of credit). Credit mix makes up 10% of your FICOÂ® Score. Key moves to make: It's a good idea to balance the pros and cons of various credit accounts when you're considering your credit mix. It's typically best to apply for new credit only when you need it, rather than to add a new type of account to improve your credit mix; instead, it may pay off to focus on the higher-impact score factors above. Your credit mix is likely to improve if you use the types of credit you need over timeâsuch as a credit card or a mortgageâand then demonstrate responsible management of these accounts. Compare personal loan rates Find APRs from 4.99% to 35.99% and flexible terms of 12 to 120 months. Loan amounts range from $1,000 up to $250,000, with funding available the same day or up to 7 days. Offers from our partners View all of our Best Personal Loans for 2026 to see what youâre likely to qualify for, and the rates and terms you might get. 5. New Credit: 10% It's a statistical fact that new debt raises the odds you'll fall behind on your old debts. Credit scoring systems, therefore, may ding your score a small amount in response to hard inquiriesâentries that appear on your
