---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-long-does-it-take-to-build-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:15.881023+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:36 GMT
---
been active, scoring models also consider the average age of your credit accounts and when they were last used. - Credit mix: Having a good mix of creditâincluding installment loans such as car loans and personal loans, and revolving credit such as credit cardsâshows that you're capable of managing different types of credit. - New credit: This factor focuses on how often you apply for credit. Each new hard inquiry a lender makes on your credit report when you apply for credit won't have a huge impact on your score, but if you apply for a lot of different types of loans and lines of credit in a short period of time, it can have a compounding effect. - Reasons Why You May Not Have a Credit Score There are a few different reasons why you may not have a credit score, even if you've used credit in the past: You're a young adult and haven't entered the world of credit yet. - You're an immigrant to the U.S. Even if you've used debt in your home country, it won't be listed on your credit reports from the three major U.S. credit bureaus. - You've never used traditional credit accounts that are reported to the credit bureaus. - You've recently opened one or more credit accounts but don't yet have enough history to generate a score. - You haven't had a credit account report to the credit bureaus recently. FICO requires accounts to report at least every six months, but VantageScore may include data from accounts more than 24 months old. - How to Start Building Credit When you're just starting out, you won't have as many opportunities as someone who has good or excellent credit. But there are still plenty of options available to help you achieve your goal. 1. Sign Up for Experian Goâ¢ Experian Goâ¢ is a free program that offers guidance and resources as you start your credit journey. In addition to offering insights and tools, Experian Go establishes an Experian credit report in your name so you can track your progress and begin the process of building credit. 2. Apply for a Credit Card Depending on your situation, there may be different credit cards available to help you establish your credit history: Student credit cards: If you're a college student, student credit cards can offer rewards and special perks tailored to students without requiring a security deposit as collateral. However, it can be challenging to get approved on your own for a student credit card without a decent income. - Alternative credit cards: Some credit cards don't require a credit history to get approved. Each of these cards works a bit differently, but all of them report your account activity to the three national credit bureaus. - Secured credit cards: Secured cards require an upfront security deposit, usually $200 or more, to get approved. Your security deposit typically becomes your credit limit, and the deposit is used if you stop making payments on the card. Otherwise, secured credit cards work the same as traditional unsecured credit cards. You can usually get your deposit back after you close your account, but some card issuers will return it sooner if you show good credit habits. - Store credit card: Many retailers offer store credit cards that you can use to build credit. These cards typically don't have high credit score requirements, but keep in mind that they can be expensive and encourage overspending. - 3. Consider a Credit-Builder Loan Credit-builder loans are solely designed to help you improve your credit score, so they function differently than other loans. Instead of giving you the loan amount up front, the lender sets it aside in a savings or certificate of deposit (CD) account. Then, once you've finished making payments, the lender gives you the funds plus the interest accrued
