---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/products/credit-offers/offers-disclosures/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:48.540253+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Equifax Consumer Services LLC Licenses and Disclosures Equifax Consumer Services LLC (“we,” “us,” “our” and “ECS”), which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Equifax Inc. (“Equifax”), is a Georgia limited liability company with its principal place of business located at 1201 West Peachtree Street NW, Suite 2200, Mail Stop 22A, Atlanta GA, US 30309. ECS provides lead generation services for banks, state licensed lenders, marketers and brokers to market loan products to consumers in certain states, including personal loans, auto loans, and credit cards through various Equifax channels, including through the Equifax public website (https://equifax.com), the myEquifax account center website available to certain consumers, and by email. In some states, our services may require us to obtain licenses or register as a loan broker or hold some similar state license in order to advertise or market the availability of credit offers or generate leads for credit products, and we have provided the list of licenses and registrations we currently hold below. However, we are not a lender and we do not take applications for credit, make any credit decisions, negotiate loans, issue loan approvals, fund loans, service loans, or enter into loan broker agreements with consumers. We do not charge consumers any fees or other consideration in connection with our lead generation services. If you visit a loan broker’s or lender’s website through an offer or advertisement we present to you, you will be required to provide additional information to the loan broker or lender to complete an application for credit. North Carolina North Carolina Loan Broker Registration No. 1044 DISCLOSURES REQUIRED BY NORTH CAROLINA LAW THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA HAS NOT REVIEWED AND DOES NOT APPROVE, RECOMMEND, ENDORSE OR SPONSOR ANY LOAN BROKERAGE CONTRACT. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DISCLOSURE HAS NOT BEEN VERIFIED BY THE STATE. IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS SEE AN ATTORNEY BEFORE YOU SIGN A CONTRACT OR AGREEMENT. As required by North Carolina law, ECS has secured a bond by LIBERTY MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY, 175 Berkeley Street, Boston, MA 02116, a surety authorized to do business in the State of North Carolina.
