---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/legal-library/browse/statutes
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:55:10.339766+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 09 Feb 2026 07:51:51 GMT
---
at 34 U.S.C. §21711 Section 101 of this Act requires the FTC to designate an Elder Justice Coordinator within the agency’s Bureau of Consumer Protection. This individual is responsible for coordinating and supporting the... Mission Consumer Protection Law 15 U.S.C. § 6552-53 This Act requires the FTC to provide a nationwide program that promotes children’s safe use of the internet. The Act specifies that the FTC’s program must utilize existing resources of public and... Mission Consumer Protection Law Pub. L. No. 115-174, codified in relevant part primarily at 15 U.S.C. 1650, 1681c, 1681c-1, 1681i and 42 U.S.C. 405b This act includes a number of changes to the Fair Credit Reporting Act and other lending-related laws, many of which affect consumers and the FTC. In particular: Title III amends the FCRA regarding... Mission Competition Law Pub. L. No. 115-263, 132 Stat. 3673, codified in relevant part at 21 U.S.C. § 355 note Section 3 of this Act requires certain agreements involving biosimilar biological drugs to be filed with the antitrust agencies in the same way certain agreements involving generic drugs must be filed... Mission Consumer Protection Law Pub. L. No. 115-254,132 Stat.3314, codified in relevant part at 49 U.S.C. § 44801 note Under Section 375 of the Act, it is an unfair and deceptive practice under FTC Act § 5(a) for a person that uses an unmanned aircraft system (i.e. a drone and its operational elements) for commercial... Mission Consumer Protection Law 15 U.S.C §§ 7701-7713 This Act establishes requirements for those who send unsolicited commercial email. The Act bans false or misleading header information and prohibits deceptive subject lines. It also requires that... Mission Consumer Protection Law 15 U.S.C. § 45b The Act generally makes provisions of form contracts between sellers and individual consumers void from inception if the provisions: (1) prohibit or restrict individuals from reviewing sellers’ goods... Law Pub. L. No. 92-513, 86 Stat. 947, now codified in relevant part at 49 U.S.C. §§ 32908, 32912-32913, and 32918, and 42 U.S.C. § 6363 Provisions added to this Act by Section 301 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (a) provide for Commission enforcement of fuel economy labeling requirements under the FTC Act, except for penalty... Mission Consumer Protection Law 10 U.S.C. § 987 The Military Lending Act, as amended, imposes a 36% rate cap, bans mandatory arbitration, and imposes other restrictions, and requires disclosures for “consumer credit” (as defined by rule issued by... Mission Competition Law Pub. L. No. 96-283, 94 Stat. 553, codified in relevant part at 30 U.S.C. § 1413 Under Section 103(d) of this Act, the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in the Department of Commerce must provide the Attorney General and the Federal Trade...
