---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/can-you-deposit-money-at-any-atm/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:53.720663+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:01 GMT
---
a receipt. This serves as documentation and can be helpful in case of any issues or discrepancies with your deposit. - Verify the deposited amount before leaving the ATM. Take a moment to check that the deposited amount is accurately reflected in your account balance. If you notice any discrepancies, address the issue quickly. - Contact your bank if there are errors. If the deposited amount doesn't appear correctly in your account, immediately contact your banking institution. It can identify your transaction using the unique transaction number and rectify any errors. - Are ATM Deposits Instant? ATM deposits aren't always instant because the processing time can vary depending on the specific ATM and your banking institution's policies. Sometimes, the deposited funds might take time to be available in your account. Some ATMs do offer instant deposits, and the funds are available immediately. However, other ATMs may have longer processing times. In most cases, if you make a cash deposit before the cutoff time of the business day, the funds will be credited on the same day. It's also important to note that weekends, holidays and cutoff times for processing may affect when the funds become available, so plan accordingly and check your bank's deposit policies. Do ATMs Charge Fees? ATMs can charge fees, but it depends on the network, location and your own bank. You might encounter fees when you use an ATM not operated by your bank or outside their network. These fees include an out-of-network ATM fee from your bank and a surcharge fee imposed by the ATM owner. The out-of-network ATM fee usually ranges from $2 to $5 per transaction, while the ATM owner's surcharge can be $1 to $4 or more. These fees can quickly add up, so knowing how to avoid them is valuable. The easiest way to avoid ATM fees is to stop using non-affiliated ATMs and plan to avoid unnecessary costs. Some banks may have fee reimbursement programs or partnerships with specific ATM networks to offer fee-free or reduced-fee access for their customers, too, so check with your bank to see what networks they're a part of. The Bottom Line While it may be inconvenient to have limitations on cash deposits at ATMs, understanding the reasons behind these restrictions can provide peace of mind. When depositing cash at an ATM, keep safety in mind and double-check receipts. Being knowledgeable about potential fees associated with using non-affiliated ATMs and planning ahead can avoid unnecessary costs. By being informed and prepared, you can successfully navigate ATM cash deposits while safeguarding your funds and minimizing fees. Earn more with a high-yield savings account Make your money work harder with a high-yield savings accountâearn higher returns with easy access to your funds. Compare accountsAbout the author Mel Jones is a freelance journalist and writer based on the East Coast. Her writing has been published in The Atlantic, The Washington Monthly, Richmond Magazine and others. Her work has been cited by the New York Times, NPR, The Huffington Post and more. Read more from Mel
