---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/should-you-bundle-your-home-and-auto-insurance/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:43.863290+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:04 GMT
---
Policies Might Be Cheaper Although bundling home and auto insurance typically reduces your premiums, it doesn't always deliver the biggest savings. Discounts for bundling home and auto insurance can vary widely depending on your location, the insurance carrier and other factors. For instance, Allstate reports that the average customer saves 25% by bundling, but says its customers in California save just 2% on average. Bundling isn't the only way to earn insurance discounts either. You might receive car insurance discounts for getting good grades, taking a defensive driving course or having an alternative-fuel vehicle. Home insurance carriers might give discounts for retirees or for installing devices such as burglar alarms to help reduce risk. Switching to a different insurance provider will cost you any existing loyalty discounts. Depending on the discounts you qualify for, you might pay less by purchasing home and auto insurance from different companies. It May Keep You From Shopping Around It's a good idea to shop around for home and auto insurance every year or so to see if you can find better rates. However, once you have multiple policies with the same insurer or a relationship with one insurance agent, switching insurance carriers might seem like such a hassle that you no longer bother to price shop. Unless you compare prices on a regular basis, you may not notice your premiums are gradually rising, ultimately costing you more money. Is it a Good Idea to Bundle Home and Auto Insurance? Bundling home and auto insurance can make sense if it will reduce your premiums while still providing the coverage you need. Before deciding to bundle your homeowners and car insurance, do some comparison shopping to see how much money it will save. Tips for Bundling Your Insurance Policies If you're thinking of bundling your home and car insurance, your current insurance providers are a good place to start. Contact each carrier to find out how bundling would affect your premiums. Ask about any other discounts or policy adjustments that could save you money. Next, get quotes from other insurance companies for bundled policies as well as individual car and home insurance coverage. You can get car insurance by contacting insurance companies or independent insurance agents directly or visiting insurance websites to get quotes online. Using an online service like Experian's car insurance quote comparison tool can simplify the process by providing multiple quotes from different insurance carriers all in one place. Be sure you're comparing the same type and amount of coverage and the same deductible with each insurance company. Compare the lowest-cost bundled policies to the lowest-cost individual policies to see which offers the best price. Stop overpaying for insurance How to Bundle Home and Auto Insurance Once you've evaluated all your insurance quotes and chosen the best car insurance option, you'll need to apply for a new insurance policy and cancel the old one. Whether you're switching your home insurance, your auto insurance or both to a new insurance carrier, the process is typically the same. Submit an application. Your application for home or auto insurance may be approved right away if you're purchasing the plan online, or may take a few days if you work with an insurance agent. - Pay your premium. Once your application is approved, you'll need to pay the premiums to activate your coverage. Some insurers offer discounts for paying your premiums in full, receiving statements digitally or setting up autopay. You usually have the option to make monthly payments if that works better for your budget. - Cancel your existing insurance. Make sure your new coverage is active and you have proof of insurance before canceling your old policy. Going without car or home insurance for even a day is risky. Calling the insurance company is generally the fastest way to cancel your coverage; you may also
