---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/about-us-5093223
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:30.804674+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
who explains the world of business and economics and how it impacts your finances. She joined Investopedia in 2024. Read more Aaron McDade Breaking News Reporter Aaron McDade is a breaking news reporter covering the latest in business and finance for Investopedia. He is an experienced journalist who has covered everything from business and tech news for Business Insider, as well as global breaking news like the war in Ukraine, U.S. politics, and the 2022 MLB lockout for Newsweek. Read more Trina Paul Breaking News Writer Trina Paul is a Breaking News and Personal Finance Writer at Investopedia, covering topics like retirement, consumer debt, and retail investing. She previously wrote about personal finance at CNBC Select, Fortune, and theSkimm. She works to make complex financial topics accessible and interesting to everyday readers, explaining everything from Social Security to the intricacies of 401(k)s. She holds a BA in economics from Swarthmore College. Read more Sarina Trangle Corporate News Reporter Sarina Trangle started as a Corporate News Reporter in October 2024.She previously spent four years on the business desk at Newsday, covering the health industry, commercial real estate and cannabis. Before that, Sarina reported and edited for the business and real estate sections of amNewYork.Prior to focusing on financial news, Sarina worked for a variety of local news outlets in and around New York City. This gave her experience covering criminal justice, politics, education and local oddities. Read more Financial Product Research & Compliance Team In partnership with the editorial team members above, our team of research analysts and compliance professionals ensures Investopedia makes sound, accurate product evaluations. Isaac Braun Research Manager Isaac Braun is the Research Manager for Investopedia. He has analyzed data for over a decade, with over five years in the digital media landscape, and he holds a degree in communication and culture from The Media School at Indiana University - Bloomington. Isaac believes it is paramount to provide the most accurate data-driven product recommendations to help readers make educated decisions. Read more Marisa Figat Associate Director, Content Compliance Marisa Figat is Investopedia's full-time Associate Director of Content Compliance, overseeing all marketing compliance and content integrity initiatives for credit cards, checking and saving accounts, loan products, insurance, brokers, and more. Marisa joined Investopedia in 2020. Marisa brings eight years of financial product compliance experience in student loans, credit cards, Medicare supplement insurance plans, and life insurance. Marisa has a bachelor's in Political Science from the University of North Texas. Read more Investopedia By the Numbers Investopedia has been helping readers through our financial news; original studies, research, data analysis; and best-in-class educational content for 25 years. Today, our 800+ contributors help our more than 44 million monthly readers find answers to empower them to take control and improve their financial lives. 36,000+ The number of articles that appear on Investopedia. More than 14,000 of those are definitions of financial terms. Editorial Standards Our mission is to simplify complex financial information and decisions so that our readers have the confidence to manage every aspect of their financial life. We aim to ensure that all of the articles on our site are empowering, unbiased, accurate, and inclusive. We are committed to following the Codes of Ethics of the Society for Advancing Business Editing and Writing (SABEW). Our content is guided by and upholds the Society for Professional Journalists' foundations of ethical journalism: being accurate and fair, minimizing harm, acting independently, and being accountable and transparent. We also uphold the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) guidelines on disclosures, where applicable. The Investopedia staff of editors work with our network of contributors and review boards to write, update, and manage all the articles you find on Investopedia. We don’t make recommendations for you to buy, sell, or hold securities or investments. We offer independent and unbiased product and service evaluations, and we provide relevant
