---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/steps-to-get-out-of-debt/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:34.001210+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:06 GMT
---
Find accountability. There are a lot of ways to find accountability. One idea is to look for an accountability partner, or someone you can share your goals and progress with. If they're working toward their own financial goals, you could offer each other support. There are also accountability apps that can help you find motivation. - 7. Consider Credit Counseling Getting a professional's perspective on how to approach your debt payoff goals can help you feel more confident that you're on the right track. A nonprofit credit counselor can review your finances with you to come up with a realistic plan for navigating your financial situation and paying off debt. A credit counselor may offer multiple suggestions for paying down your debt. In some cases, they may suggest a debt management plan (DMP). When it's a good fit, a DMP may make payments on your unsecured debts more manageable and potentially lower your rates. To find a good credit counselor, start with the nonprofit National Foundation for Credit Counseling or the Financial Counseling Association of America, which can refer you to certified counselors. Learn more: What is a Credit Counselor? The Bottom Line Getting out of debt can help you reduce stress, free up funds and improve your financial life overall. While making only minimum payments keeps you in debt longer and can mean paying more in interest, being more aggressive in your payoff strategy could help you reach your goals more quickly. It's often in your interest to pay down high-interest debtâlike credit cards, some personal loans and some auto loansâas quickly as possible. As you make progress in your debt payoff journey, be sure you're keeping an eye on your credit. Sign up for free credit monitoring through Experian for regular updates on changes to your FICOÂ® ScoreÎ. Find out what debts you owe Your free credit report lists all your debts, such as credit card balances and loans, helping you create a plan to tackle your debt and improve your financial health. Review your creditAbout the author Evelyn Waugh is a personal finance writer covering credit, budgeting, saving and debt at Experian. She has reported on finance, real estate and consumer trends for a range of online and print publications. Read more from Evelyn
