---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/rules-policy/petitions-rulemaking/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:21.297245+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Petitions for rulemaking We respond to petitions from interested persons for the issuance, amendment, or repeal of a CFPB rule, as required by the Administrative Procedure Act. Submitting a petition You can submit your petitions for rulemaking by emailing petitions@cfpb.gov. In addition, you may also submit petitions by mail, hand delivery, or courier to: Rulemaking Petitions Docket Attn: Legal Division Docket Manager Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 1700 G Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20552 To ensure proper handling, we recommend that you submit petitions for rulemaking only through these methods. We also recommend that you state that it is a petition under section 553(e) of the Administrative Procedure Act. To assist us in our review and consideration of your petition, we recommend that you include the following information with your submission: Your contact information (full name, address, telephone number, email address) - The type of action you are requesting (e.g., whether the CFPB should issue a new rule or repeal or amend an existing rule) - The factual and legal reasons for the proposed action - The expected effects the proposed action will have on relevant parties (e.g., consumers, industry, enforcement authorities) - All petitions, including attachments and other supporting materials, will become part of the public record and subject to public disclosure. Proprietary information or sensitive personal information, such as account numbers or Social Security numbers, or names of other individuals, should not be included. Petitions will not be edited to remove any identifying or contact information. The CFPB may, in its discretion, decide not to post submissions and other materials, or portions thereof, including the following: Duplicate identical submissions (submitted by the same submitter(s) through different means) - Copyrighted material owned by someone other than the submitter - Confidential business information (CBI) - Spam submissions - Threats of harm or violence - Submissions that are disavowed by the named author or submitter - If a submission is determined to be a petition, it will be assigned a docket number and posted to Regulations.gov for public comment. The petitioner will be notified once the petition has been docketed. After the comment period closes, the CFPB will review the petition and any submitted comments and issue a final response. The final response will also be posted to the docket on Regulations.gov and to this webpage. Links to petitions we have received appear below. As new petitions are added, members of the public may comment on petitions by following instructions at those links. Community Home Lenders of America (CHLA) Andrew Gonzalez Aaron Klein Andrew James Gonzalez Andrew James Gonzalez Tania Ortega Andrew James Gonzalez UnidosUS, et al. National Consumer Law Center (NCLC) National Consumer Law Center (NCLC) Carol Janusz Tasha Blanchard Holly Thai David Petroni Cameron Heffelfinger Andrew Meinert Zaniya Lewis Sharon Borough Jordan Vint Bharat Kondapalli Kelly Subbaiah Melissa Edwards Ron Nelson National Association of Consumer Advocates (NACA), et al. Page last modified @
