---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/business-guidance/credit-finance
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:55:51.142631+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 09 Feb 2026 07:51:44 GMT
---
Credit and Loans If you extend credit to consumers, are in the business of offering loans, or help companies that do, know your compliance responsibilities. (Looking for information about credit reports or consumer reports? Visit Credit Reporting.) Debt If you market products or services promising to help consumers with their debts – or assist companies that do – are you up on the rules and laws that apply to your business? (For resources related to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, visit Debt Collection.) Debt Collection The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act protects consumers from abusive or harassing treatment by debt collectors and establishes guidelines for the industry. Is your company complying with the law? FinTech FinTech describes the emerging marketplace of new financial technologies. Even as companies innovate in the products they offer and how they offer them, established consumer protection principles apply. Keep up on FinTech developments at the FTC. Mortgages The FTC enforces laws that protect consumers from deceptive mortgage practices by certain kinds of lenders. The FTC also takes action when companies use illegal tactics directed to people facing foreclosure. If your company is within the jurisdiction of the FTC, are you complying with the law? Payments and Billing Under the law, businesses must take steps to ensure that charges to customers' credit cards, debit cards, phone bills, and other accounts are authorized. Those principles apply to mobile payments, too. It's also illegal to bill people for negative options, automatic shipments, or continuity programs without their express consent. Does your company process payments for others? There are compliance standards you need to meet. Find out more about resources from the FTC.
