---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/credit-report-services/credit-freeze/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:55.267505+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
What you need to know You must be 18 to create a myEquifax™ account. Visit Customer Care to learn how to submit requests by phone or mail. Parents, legal guardians, or others with Power of Attorney can place a security freeze on theEquifax credit reports of minors under the age of 16. A security freeze is one step you can take to help prevent access to your Equifax credit report to open credit accounts, with certain exceptions. Freezes are federally regulated. To freeze your other credit reports, you will need to contact Experian and TransUnion directly. Before applying for credit, you will need to lift your security freeze so that potential creditors can access your Equifax credit report. At Equifax, you can manage your freeze online with your username and password after creating a myEquifax account. You can also manage your freeze by phone: call us at (888) 298-0045. You'll be required to give certain information to verify your identity. You'll also have the option to receive a one-time PIN by text message or answer questions based on information in your Equifax credit report for identity verification. Placing, lifting and removing a security freeze is free. To place a security freeze on the Equifax credit report of an active duty military service member, you will need to submit proof of their identity, along with yours, and proof that you are their authorized representative. Download and follow the instructions on the Military Families Freeze Request form. To place a security freeze on the Equifax credit report of a minor (under the age of 16), you will need to submit proof of their identity, along with yours, and proof that you are their authorized representative. Download and follow the instructions on the Minor Freeze Request form. To place a security freeze on the Equifax credit report of an incapacitated adult, you will need to submit proof of their identity, along with yours, and proof that you are their authorized representative. Download and follow the instructions on the Incapacitated Adult Freeze Request form. In order to add a security freeze to the TransUnion or Experian credit reports of an incapacitated adult or a minor, you will need to contact those bureaus directly.
