---
source_url: https://www.usa.gov/benefits
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:20.235714+00:00
last_updated: Sat, 07 Feb 2026 01:13:46 GMT
---
Government benefits Get information on government programs that may help you pay for food, housing, health care, and other basic living expenses. Learn about Social Security and government checks. Find government benefits and financial help Use the benefit finder tool or search by category to learn which benefits you and your family may be eligible for. Understand how to apply for what you qualify for. - Food assistance Get nutritious food through SNAP (food stamps), WIC for women, infants, and children, and emergency food assistance. - Health insurance Get information about Medicaid, CHIP, Medicare, the ACA Health Insurance Marketplace, and COBRA. - Housing help Learn about rental and buyer assistance programs. Find emergency housing and avoid eviction. - Help with utility bills Learn about government programs to help pay for phone, internet, and energy bills. - Welfare and financial assistance Learn about welfare benefits, financial assistance, and more. - Social Security Learn about Social Security, including retirement and disability benefits, how to get or replace your Social Security card, and more. - Government checks and payments Report missing government checks. Trace unexpected payments. Make a payment to the government. - State social service agencies Contact your state social service agency for information about state benefit programs and more. - Government death benefits Find government survivor benefits for housing, education, military, and more. - Where to report incorrect benefit payments Get contact information for reporting missing or incorrect federal benefit payments. - Government grants and loans Learn about federal grants for states and organizations and federal loans for individuals. - Looking for something else? Explore all topics and services
