---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/perfect-scores-who-has-them-and-what-do-they-have-in-common/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:39.706686+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:57 GMT
---
credit map below resembles those of prior years. States with average credit scores that are higher than the norm unsurprisingly also have more than the national share of consumers rocking an 850 score. Percentage of Consumers With 850 FICOÂ® Scores by State But higher percentages of 850 scores don't necessarily mean overall credit scores are higher in the state as well, though sometimes it's clearly the case, as in Minnesota and Wisconsin. Mid-Atlantic states like Delaware and Maryland have a high percentage of perfect scores, but overall, credit score averages are at or even below the national average of 714. State | Percentage of Consumers With an 850 FICOÂ® Score | Average FICOÂ® Score (Rank) | ---|---|---| 1. Minnesota | 2.67% | 742 (1) | ---|---|---| 2. Hawaii | 2.62% | 731 (11) | ---|---|---| 3. Virginia | 2.40% | 722 (22) | ---|---|---| 4. Maryland | 2.36% | 714 (31) | ---|---|---| 5. Wisconsin | 2.35% | 738 (3) | ---|---|---| 6. Massachusetts | 2.34% | 731 (9) | ---|---|---| 7. Delaware | 2.30% | 712 (33) | ---|---|---| 8. Colorado | 2.27% | 730 (13) | ---|---|---| 9. Washington | 2.26% | 735 (5) | ---|---|---| 10. New Jersey | 2.22% | 723 (20) | ---|---|---| Source: Experian data as of March 2025 It could be in these cases that the states are adjacent to large metropolitan areas which are either doing well or, in the case of Maryland and Delaware, are adjacent to the recent tumult in Federal employment, which may already be working its way toward adversely affecting credit scores for some. Top Metros With Perfect Credit Scores Of the 374 metropolitan areas in the U.S., 102 boast more than 2% of consumers with 850 FICOÂ® Scoresâtwice as many as the 50 metros when Experian last measured in 2024. Moreover, there's now a 3% Club: Metros where 3% of consumers have an 850 FICOÂ® Score. 10 Metro Areas With Highest Percentage of 850 Credit Scores | ---| 1. Boulder, Colorado | 3.25% | ---|---| 2. San Jose-Sunnyvale, California | 3.18% | ---|---| 3. San Luis Obispo, California | 3.15% | ---|---| 4. San Francisco-Oakland, California | 3.12% | ---|---| 5. Oxnard-Thousand Oaks, California | 3.11% | ---|---| 6. Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minnesota | 2.99% | ---|---| 7. Santa Rosa, California | 2.97% | ---|---| 8. Honolulu, Hawaii | 2.93% | ---|---| 9. Washington, D.C. | 2.90% | ---|---| 10. Madison, Wisconsin | 2.89% | ---|---| Source: Experian data as of March 2025 The cities in this list that comprise the membership of this exclusive new 3% Club are by most measures wealthier than other communities. But there may be another explanation apart from Silicon Valley wealth: the California out-migration that's occurred over the past 10 years. As some consumers are priced out of these California communities, they leave behind those who are both content and able to afford the higher cost of living. In addition, caps on property taxes mean consumers can stay put even in the face of rising property insurance costs. 850 FICOÂ® Score: A Worthy Goal, but Not Necessary Although the obsession with a perfect 850 credit score will probably continue in the age of the quantified self, it may be more useful to use the characteristics of these consumers as a model to improve your own credit score. Habits you could replicate to see a score boost include: Maintaining low revolving credit balances compared with credit limits; in other words, having a low credit utilization ratio. Those with the highest credit scores typically use less than 10% of their available credit. - Making all debt payments on time. A payment history with few, if any, delinquencies reported on past and present credit accounts will help most. - Growing a reasonably long credit history. Keeping credit card accounts open, even if you rarely use
