---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/etfs-4427784
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:41.436844+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
that trade on an exchange. Index ETFs are popular because they offer a diversified portfolio for investors. A smart Beta ETF is a kind of exchange traded fund that follows an index, but it also considers alternative factors in choosing the stocks from the index that include companies that only have certain behaviors or metrics. For example, some of these ETFs may follow a stock index that contains only tech stocks, large companies, or mid-cap stocks. The original ticker symbol for the Nasdaq 100 Trust is known as QQQQ, an ETF that trades on the Nasdaq exchange. The ETF is known as "cubes" or quadruple-Qs" and offers broad exposure to the tech sector by tracking the Nasdaq 100 Index. A regulated investment company can be any type of investment such as mutual funds, ETFs, and REITS. A so-called RIC must derive a minimum of 90% of its income from capital gains, interest, or dividends earned on investments. It was created in 2010 under the RIC Modernization Act to address changes in the mutual fund industry, when President Obama signed it into law. BlackRock, the world's largest asset management company, is the parent of iShares, which is one of the world's largest and well-known ETF providers, offering more than 800 products worldwide. Founded in 2000, iShares now manages over $2 trillion among its exchange-traded funds. A sector ETF is a financial product that invests in stocks and other securities of a very specific sector such as manufacturing, energy or technology stocks, which allows investors to bet on an entire industry without having risky exposure to a single company or several companies. Some other broad sector categories also may include industrials, utilities, or real estate. An authorized participant is an organization that has the right to create and redeem shares of an exchange traded fund (ETF). Large banks like Bank of America (BAC), JPMorgan Chase (JPM), Goldman Sachs (GS), and Morgan Stanley (MS) are among some of the most well-known authorized participants. A dividend ETF is an exchange-traded fund (ETF) designed to invest in a basket of dividend-paying stocks, which is an income-investing strategy that provides income via stocks dividends.
