---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/company-news-4427705
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:32.642697+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Investors Love Palantir's Earnings. The Stock Is Soaring. Palantir's CEO Is Feeling Good After the Software Company's 'Remarkable' Quarter For the New Walmart and Target CEOs, It's 'Continuation' vs. 'Reinvention' Here's How Much Alphabet Stock Is Expected to Move After Earnings on Wednesday Oracle Is Raising Billions to Fund Its AI Buildout. Today, Investors Are Cheering Disney Stock Slides Despite Strong Earnings as Investors Look Ahead to CEO Succession Here's How Much Traders Expect Palantir Stock to Move After Earnings Monday Sandisk's Results and Outlook Soar Past Estimates. Its Rally Isn't Stopping. Big Tech Earnings Live: Apple Beats Wall Street Estimates; Meta Stock Surges, Microsoft Plunges After Results Microsoft Shares Plunge 10%, Wiping Out Nearly $360 Billion in Market Value Tesla Is Promoting Its 'FSD' Sales. They're Also an Important Part of Elon Musk's Pay Tech Companies Are Still Spending Heavily on AI. Investors Want to See More Than Big Numbers. Meta Is a Top S&P Gainer Today. Here's Why The Social-Media Stock Is Surging. Here's How Much Traders Expect Apple Stock to Move After Earnings Thursday Elon Musk's Latest Big Move: Tesla Won't Make Two of Its Car Models Anymore Big Tech Earnings Live: Meta and Tesla Shares Surge on Strong Results; Microsoft Drops as Cloud Revenue Growth Slows Intel's Stock Soars as Client Rumors Swirl: Could Nvidia and Apple Deals Be on the Way? Here's How Much Traders Expect Tesla Stock to Move After Earnings Amazon Is Laying Off 16,000 Workers, in Latest Round of Cuts Starbucks Stock Is Getting Another Lift Wednesday—The Next Catalyst Could Come Tomorrow Would You Pay for Facebook? Get Ready for More Social Media Subscription Plans Nvidia's Plans to Sell More Chips in China Just Cleared a Major Hurdle Here's How Much Traders Expect Microsoft Stock to Move After Earnings This Specialty Glassmaker’s Stock Is Soaring on an AI Data Center Deal With Meta Here's How Much Traders Expect Meta Stock To Move After Wednesday's Earnings Why Two 'Idiots'—Elon Musk and the CEO of Ryanair—Are Going At It CoreWeave Stock Soars as Nvidia Boosts Its Investment—What You Need to Know USA Rare Earth Is Surging. A Big Government Funding Deal Is Lifting the Stock The ‘Magnificent 7’ Are Off to a Mixed Start in 2026. Here’s What to Watch as Their Earnings Start Is the Rally for Intel's Stock Over? Capital One Stock Is a Big Loser Today. But It Still Has Some Big Fans. These Two Charts Sum Up the AI Stock Rally in 2026 Your Favorite Spices May Get a Bit More Expensive Soon. Here's the Reason Why A Memory Shortage Is Bad News for Intel. Here's Who It's Good For. TikTok Finally Has a Trump-Brokered US Deal. Who Are Its New American Investors? Intel’s Stock Sinks After a Disappointing Outlook. The Chipmaker Has a Supply Problem Elon Musk Says Optimus Robots Are Coming Your Way. That Has Tesla Stock on the Rise. Business Travel Is Back—United Airlines Says Demand Is 'Amazing' Intel Stock's Torrid Rally Is About to Face Its Latest Test. Here's What You Need to Know. Here's How Much Traders Expect Intel Stock to Move After Earnings Today Intel Rallies Ahead of Earnings. Here's What Analysts Are Saying That's Boosting the Stock. Wall Street Is Down on Software Stocks. This Expert Says That's 'Absolutely Wrong' Yellowfin Tuna Can Recall: Check Your Supermarket Shelves In These States Netflix Stock Hasn't Impressed Investors Lately. Its Deal for Warner Bros. Isn’t Helping. This Stock Has Had the Best 2026 In the S&P 500. It Just Got Another Boost. Netflix Is Set to Report Earnings After the Closing Bell. Here's What You Need to Know. America’s Biggest Tech Stocks Lead Tuesday’s Sell-Off as Trump's Greenland Rhetoric Rattles Markets Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up
