---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-credit-limit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:05.729222+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:16 GMT
---
and the economic environment, and will frequently review your credit reports to see how you're using credit. For example, the company may lower your credit limit if: Your credit score drops - You miss payments - You take on more debt (including debts from other creditors) - You don't use the account often - Your spending behavior changes - Your income decreases - On the other hand, creditors may increase your credit limit when: Your credit score improves - Your income increases (and you report the increase) - You have a good history of paying your bills on time - You request a credit limit increase - Some actions can be interpreted differently depending on the circumstances. For example, a credit card issuer might lower your credit limit if you're revolving a balance and it thinks you'll struggle to afford larger payments. Or, it might raise your limit if it thinks you'll likely spend more money and can afford higher interest payments. What Happens When You Go Over Your Credit Limit? Two things can happen when your credit card's balance reaches its credit limit and you try to make a purchase: Your transaction gets declined. The card issuer can decline the transaction and your purchase will not go through. - Your transaction gets approved and your minimum payment increases. The card issuer can choose to approve the transaction. The amount you go over your card's credit limit may be added to your minimum payment for the billing cycle. - If you're close to your credit limit, you can free up available credit by paying down your current balance or getting a credit limit increase. Card issuers may also consider how often you go over your credit limit when deciding whether to change your credit limit. Some newer credit scoring models may also consider how often you go over your limit when calculating your score. Monitor Your Credit Limits and Utilization You can get your Experian credit report for free and benefit from helpful analysis. For example, you can use the credit overview section to see your overall revolving utilization, how many accounts you have with balances and your total credit card debt. And if you want to open a new credit card to increase your overall available credit, Experian offers a feature that can match you with card offers based on your unique credit profile. What makes a good credit score? Learn what it takes to achieve a good credit score. Review your FICOÂ® Score for free and see whatâs helping and hurting your score. Get your FICOÂ® ScoreNo credit card required About the author Louis DeNicola is freelance personal finance and credit writer who works with Fortune 500 financial services firms, FinTech startups, and non-profits to teach people about money and credit. His clients include BlueVine, Discover, LendingTree, Money Management International, U.S News and Wirecutter. Read more from Louis
