---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/bankruptcy-how-it-works-types-and-consequences/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:24.695237+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
you've exhausted all other alternatives, bankruptcy may be the only way to get the financial relief you're seeking. Depending on your situation, it could even give you a fresh financial start, albeit with some work ahead of you to rebuild credit. - You can get a repayment plan that works for you. If you've been unsuccessful in negotiating a restructured repayment plan with your creditors, bankruptcy may help you get a plan that works for your budget. - Cons It can ruin your credit. Although bankruptcy can make sense for your overall financial well-being, it can take several years to rebuild your credit history. As a result, you may need to put certain financial moves on hold until you can qualify for better terms. - You can lose some of your assets. Regardless of which type of bankruptcy you choose, you may need to sell off some of your assets to cover payments. That can include things like non-retirement investments, jewelry, furniture and more. - It's not a guarantee. Depending on your financial situation, there's no guarantee that you'll qualify for bankruptcy. Even if you do, you may not get the results you're looking for. - Getting a Credit Card or Loan after Bankruptcy After your bankruptcy has been discharged, you're free to apply for credit again. But having the public record on your credit reports will make it difficult for you to get approved for most loans and credit cards. That doesn't mean you'll have no options at all. But among the options that are available, you may be faced with high interest rates and fees, at least until you've spent time rebuilding your credit. Getting a Mortgage After Bankruptcy While there are some forms of credit available shortly after bankruptcy, you'll typically have to wait a while before you can get approved for a mortgage loan. That's because most home loan programs have a waiting period, which can be anywhere from one to four years from the date of your discharge. The period is typically longer if you filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. Even after you complete the waiting period, you'll still need to meet all the other requirements to get approved, and you still may end up with a higher interest rate. If you're thinking about including a mortgage loan in your bankruptcy, consider whether it makes more sense to reaffirm your mortgage during bankruptcy proceedings. You would be able to keep your home, continue paying on your current mortgage창free of other debts창and stay in your current home. How to Rebuild Your Credit After Bankruptcy You'll have a hard time getting approved for credit while your bankruptcy is still open. Once your case has been discharged, the rebuilding process can take several years, so it's a good idea to get started as quickly as possible. Here are some steps you can take: Apply for a secured credit card. Secured credit cards can help you establish a positive payment history as you use your card responsibly and pay your bill on time every month. Keep in mind, though, that you'll typically need to make a security deposit equal to your desired credit limit to get approved. - Get a credit-builder loan. You may consider a credit-builder loan in addition to or instead of a secured credit card. With this installment loan, the lender will hold the loan proceeds창usually between $300 and $1,000창in a separate account while you make payments, which the lender will report to the credit bureaus. Once you've completed your repayment term, which can range from six to 24 months, you'll receive the loan funds. - Become an authorized user. If you have a loved one who uses their credit card responsibly, consider asking them to add you as an authorized user on the account. Once you have authorized-user status, the account's full history will show
