---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
more than seven years or until the governing statute of limitations has expired, whichever is the longer period. (3) Paid tax liens which, from date of payment, antedate the report by more than seven years. (4) Accounts placed for collection or charged to profit and loss which antedate the report by more than seven years.5 (5) Any other adverse item of information, other than records of convic - tions of crimes which antedates the report by more than seven years.5 (6) The name, address, and telephone number of any medical information furnisher that has notified the agency of its status, unless – (A) such name, address, and telephone number are restricted or reported using codes that do not identify, or provide information sufficient to infer, the specific provider or the nature of such services, products, or devices to a person other than the consumer; or (B) the report is being provided to an insurance company for a purpose relating to engaging in the business of insurance other than property and casualty insurance. (7) With respect to a consumer reporting agency described in section 603(p), any information related to a veteran’s medical debt if the date on which the hospital care, medical services, or extended care services was rendered relating to the debt antedates the report by less than 1 year if the consumer reporting agency has actual knowledge that the information is related to a veteran’s medical debt and the consumer reporting agency is in compliance with its obligation under section 302(c)(5) of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act. (8) With respect to a consumer reporting agency described in section 603(p), any information related to a fully paid or settled veteran’s medical debt that had been characterized as delinquent, charged off, or in collection if the consumer reporting agency has actual knowledge that the information is related to a veteran’s medical debt and the consumer reporting agency is in compliance with its obligation under 5 The reporting periods have been lengthened for certain adverse information pertaining to U.S. Government insured or guaranteed student loans, or pertaining to national direct student loans. See sections 430A(f) and 463(c)(3) of the Higher Education Act of 1965, 20 U.S.C. 1080a(f) and 20 U.S.C. 1087cc(c)(3), respectively. § 605 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681c 23 section 302(c)(5) of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act. (b) Exempted cases. The provisions of paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (a) of this section are not applicable in the case of any consumer credit report to be used in connection with (1) a credit transaction involving, or which may reasonably be expected to involve, a principal amount of $150,000 or more; (2) the underwriting of life insurance involving, or which may reasonably be expected to involve, a face amount of $150,000 or more; or (3) the employment of any individual at an annual salary which equals, or which may reasonably be expected to equal $75,000, or more. (c) Running of Reporting Period (1) In general. The 7-year period referred to in paragraphs (4) and (6)6 of subsection (a) shall begin, with respect to any delinquent account that is placed for collection (internally or by referral to a third party, whichever is earlier), charged to profit and loss, or subjected to any similar action, upon the expiration of the 180-day period beginning on the date of the commencement of the delinquency which immediately preceded the collection activity, charge to profit and loss, or similar action. (2) Effective date. Paragraph (1) shall apply only to items of information added to the file of a consumer on or after the date that is 455 days after the date of enactment of the Consumer Credit Reporting Reform Act of 1996. (d) Information Required to be Disclosed (1) Title 11 information . Any consumer reporting agency that furnishes a
