---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-make-a-budget/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:52.554527+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:47 GMT
---
money from another envelope. If you don't use much cash and prefer a digital approach, Goodbudget is a budgeting app that allows you to use the method. - 50/30/20 plan: The 50/30/20 budget involves allocating 50% of your take-home pay to necessities, such as housing, utilities and car payments; 30% to discretionary spending; and 20% to savings and paying down debt. Depending on your situation, you can adjust the proportions to fit your needs and goals. - Two-account plan: With the two-account plan, you add up your fixed monthly expenses and divide that amount by the number of paychecks you receive each month. Deposit that fixed-expense amount into one bank account when you get paid, and the remainder goes into a second account for your discretionary spending. - Zero-based budgeting plan: With a zero-based budget, the idea is to assign a role to every dollar, essentially making your expenses equal to your take-home pay. This level of detail gives you an incredible view of where your money is going, but be sure to keep a flush emergency fund in case your costs go up or you're hit with a large expense. - Learn more: Tips for Low-Effort Budgeting 6. Stick to Your Budget Creating a budget may be the easiest part of budgeting. Keeping track of and limiting your expenses month after month so you can stick to your budget is usually the hard part. Here are some tips for staying with a budget: Be realistic. Again, setting realistic goals is crucial because it helps you avoid falling short. This is especially important when you're starting out and need all the motivation you can get. - Plan ahead. It's almost a guarantee that life won't go as you planned, so it's important to keep emergency savings just in case. Also, keep in mind that some recurring charges don't happen every month. If you have any expenses that occur quarterly or annuallyâthink car expenses and holiday shoppingâmake sure to plan for those. - Be flexible. As your life and, therefore, your expenses, change over time, create some room for flexibility so you can adapt. If your budget is too strict, a few new expenses (a longer commute to work, for example) can throw everything off. - Pivot when needed. If you notice that your budget isn't serving you well or your financial situation or goals have changed, don't be afraid to make adjustments to your approach so your budget can continue to help you manage your money effectively. - Use credit cards responsibly. You don't have to use credit cards if you don't want to. If you do, though, it's critical that you use your credit cards responsibly. This includes tracking your expenses so you stay within your budget. Ideally, this means keeping your balances low and paying them off in full each month to avoid late payments and an accumulation of debt. - Frequently Asked Questions Above All Things, Remember Your Goals Making a budget can be an important step in the right direction for you. It'll show you where your money is going and where you may have room to spend less,so you can save for a car, a home or whatever your financial goals are. But budgeting for the sake of budgeting isn't fun. As you work with your budget each month, remind yourself of the reasons why you're doing it. Also, evaluate your progress periodically to make sure you're on track to meet your goals. As you gain more control over your personal finances, it's also a good idea to keep track of your credit. Create an Experian account to access your Experian credit report and FICOÂ® ScoreÎ based on Experian data for free. A robust credit history and high credit scores can open doors that can make the financial future you dream about a reality. Want
