---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-remove-hard-inquiries-from-credit-report/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:59.936247+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:50 GMT
---
Can You Remove Hard Inquiries From Your Credit Report? Quick Answer You canât remove a legitimate hard inquiry from your credit report. If you find a hard inquiry on your credit report that you donât recognize or believe is erroneous, you have the right to dispute it with the credit bureaus. Hard inquiries appear on your credit report when a lender checks your credit as part of the credit application process. You cannot remove legitimate hard inquiries from your credit report. Fortunately, hard inquiries have a minimal impact on your credit, and they fall off your credit report after two years. If your credit report contains a hard inquiry that you don't recognize, you have the right to dispute it. Disputing hard inquiries on your credit report is straightforward and costs nothing. Here's how to do it. What Is a Hard Inquiry? A hard inquiry occurs when you apply for a new loan or credit card. It involves the lender checking one or more of your credit reports to determine whether you meet its creditworthiness criteria. This is also sometimes called a hard credit check or hard pull. One hard inquiry might lower your FICOÂ® ScoreÎ by less than five points, according to FICO, and your score will likely recover within just a few months. The more hard inquiries you have on your credit reports, however, the riskier prospective lenders may view you. That's because applying for credit too often could indicate financial instability, and that could translate to risk in a lender's eyes. How Long Do Hard Inquiries Stay on Your Credit Report? Hard inquiries stay on your credit reports for up to two years before they fall off naturally. If you have legitimate hard inquiries, you'll likely need to wait until the 24-month period is over to see them disappear. However, they likely won't impact your credit score once they're more than a year old. Also, not all hard inquiries impact credit scores. When you're rate shopping for the best terms on an auto loan, mortgage or private student loan, you may have several hard inquiries as lenders check your credit to determine whether to extend you credit and what terms and rate to offer. As long as you apply for the loans within a 14- to 45-day period, depending on the scoring model, they will be considered as one inquiry. Learn more: How Does Rate Shopping Affect Your Credit Scores? Hard Inquiry vs. Soft Inquiry Hard inquiries differ from soft inquiries in two main ways: When they occur: Hard inquiries occur when you apply for a loan, credit card or other financing. Soft inquiries, on the other hand, can happen upon your requestâsuch as when you want to check your credit reportâor even without your knowledge, such as when lenders check your credit before sending you a promotional offer. - Impact on your credit score: Soft inquiries don't affect your credit scores at all, while each hard inquiry typically knocks up to five points off your credit score, depending on the credit scoring model used. - Should You Remove Fraudulent Hard Inquiries? If you find a hard inquiry that you don't recognize on your credit report, you have the right to dispute it with the credit bureaus. Unrecognized hard inquiries could be a sign of credit fraud, which happens when an identity thief uses your Social Security number or other personally identifiable information to open a new account in your name. On the other hand, you cannot remove legitimate hard inquiries from your credit report. Disputing a genuine hard inquiry on your credit report will likely not result in any change to your scores. Learn more: How Many Hard Inquiries Is Too Many? How to Find Unauthorized Hard Inquiries Check your credit report to look for any unauthorized hard inquiries. If you notice a hard inquiry on
