---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/about-us-5093223
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:30.804674+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
About Us Table of Contents Expand Who We Are Investopedia in the Press Editorial Team News Team Financial Product Research & Compliance Team Investopedia By the Numbers Editorial Standards Financial Review Board Fact Checking Corrections Management Team About People Inc. Careers Contact Us Who We Are Investopedia was founded in 1999 with the mission of helping people improve their financial outcomes. Our millions of readers come to us from all over the world and from all walks of life. Some are learning about money and investing for the first time, while others are experienced investors, business owners, professionals, financial advisors, and executives looking to improve their knowledge and skills. No matter who they are, we are here to help. Investopedia is a part of the People Inc. publishing family. Awards 2024 FCS Portfolio Awards Best in Show2023 Gramercy Institute Marketing Strategy Award2023 2 Gramercy Institute ESG Awards2023 Gramercy Institute Financial Content Marketing Award2023 FCS Portfolio Awards2022 Gramercy Institute Finance Content Marketing Award2021 SABEW Best in Business Awards, Newsletter, Medium Division2021 FCS Jamie E. Depeau Leadership Award2020 Dotdash named Digiday Publisher of the Year Investopedia in the Press Investopedia's Investor Sentiment Survey on CNBC's Fast Money Caleb Silver on NBC News Caleb Silver on Yahoo Finance For media inquiries and interview requests, please contact press@investopedia.com Editorial Team Caleb Silver Chief Business Editor, Editor in Chief Caleb has been the Editor in Chief of Investopedia since 2016, and was announced as People Inc.'s Chief Business Editor in 2025. He is an award-winning media executive with more than 20 years of experience in business news, digital publishing, and documentaries. Caleb is the on the Board of Governors and Executive Committee of SABEW (Society for Advancing Business Editing & Writing), and his awards include a Peabody, EPPY, SABEW Best in Business, and two Emmy nominations. Read more Anna Attkisson Senior Editorial Director Anna Attkisson is a full-time Senior Editorial Director for Investopedia, overseeing content strategy and operations. Anna has spent 20 years crafting content around highly complex topics and publications, including small business, technology, and finance. Previously, she served as the editorial director at Business.com, Business News Daily, and others. Anna holds a bachelor's in journalism from the University of Kansas. Read more Hilarey Gould Senior Editorial Director, Financial Products & Services Hilarey Gould has over a decade of journalism experience, with expertise in editing, content strategy, social media, and more. She is currently a full-time Senior Editorial Director of financial products and services at Investopedia. Hilarey has held editorial roles at Bankrate, SmartAsset, and realtor.com. She has a master's in journalism from the University of Missouri. Read more Yasmin Ghahremani Associate Editorial Director, Financial Products and Services Yasmin Ghahremani is a full-time Associate Editorial Director at Investopedia, where she oversees educational content about consumer financial products, ranging from checking accounts to life insurance. Yasmin has over two decades of journalism experience and is an expert on personal finance topics, including credit cards, insurance, and loans. At Investopedia, she provides strategy and operations leadership around educational content designed to help consumers make the best financial choices for their needs. She earned her bachelor's in advertising from the University of Texas at Austin and a master's in international affairs from Columbia University. Read more Stella Osoba Senior Editor, Trading and Investing Stella Osoba is the Senior Editor of trading and investing at Investopedia, where she oversees the library of financial education content. She has enjoyed a distinguished career as a financial, legal, and business writer, a technical analyst, an attorney, and an independent trader. Stella is active in the CMT Association and was co-founder and chair of Women in Technical Analysis, designed to increase opportunities for women to network and form meaningful contacts in the finance industry. Read more Lars Peterson Senior Editor, Special Projects Lars Peterson joined Investopedia in 2023 as a senior editor
