---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-life-insurance-companies-8763666
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:17.041413+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
whole lifeUniversal lifeVariable universal life Available Riders Term conversionSpouse riderGuaranteed insurability riderWaiver of premiumDisability incomeTerminal illnessChronic illness Best No-Medical-Exam Insurance : Penn Mutual Penn Mutual Financial Strength Rating: A+Complaints: Much better than expected for company size Get a Quote (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It If you want a substantial life insurance policy and don’t want to take a medical exam when you apply, Penn Mutual is the best provider. Its no-medical-exam policies can run up to $10 million—the highest amount we found in our research. Pros & Cons Pros Large policies available without a medical exam High dividend rate for whole life policies Great customer complaint record Cons Doesn’t offer final expense insurance No online application or quotes No live chat for customer service Overview Penn Mutual’s cap on no-medical-exam coverage is double that of the next-highest limit we saw ($5 million from Nationwide or Symetra) and many orders of magnitude higher than competitors whose caps run as low as $25,000. Whole life policyholders enjoy dividends, and at 6%, Penn Mutual’s dividend interest rate is among the highest of the companies Investopedia researched. Dividends are never guaranteed, but the company has paid them for 175 straight years, with a record $265 million of dividends paid in 2025. Customers made a few complaints to state regulators about Penn Mutual, according to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) Complaint Index. Our main issue with Penn Mutual is that if you’re looking for a small, no-exam final expense policy, you’ll have to look elsewhere. Penn Mutual doesn’t offer these types of policies. It also lacks online quotes and application features that many competitors have. Policy Types & Riders Available Policy Types Term lifeWhole lifeChildren's whole lifeUniversal lifeIndexed universal lifeVariable universal lifeNo-medical-exam life Available Riders Spouse riderGuaranteed insurability riderAccidental death benefitTerminal illness riderChronic illness riderChildren's term riderWaiver of premium rider Also Great for No-Medical-Exam Life Insurance : Symetra Symetra Financial Strength Rating: AComplaints: Much better than expected for company size Get a Quote (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It Investopedia found that Symetra offers the second-highest coverage limit ($5 million). You can apply without taking a medical exam—and you could get approved in a matter of minutes. Pros & Cons Pros No-medical-exam policies come with high coverage limits Rapid approval process Low rate of customer complaints relative to the company’s size Cons Limited policy types Small selection of riders Overview Symetra is another great choice for no-medical-exam insurance, along with Penn Mutual. Its coverage limit is half as big as Penn Mutual’s, but at $5 million, that’s still ample for many people. You must still qualify based on age, income, and medical records. But you can apply online, and Symetra can make coverage decisions in minutes. Beyond no-exam term life insurance, Symetra’s product lineup is patchy. The company doesn’t sell whole life, final expense, or universal life insurance, though it does offer three indexed universal life policies and one variable universal policy. It has a few riders, but not nearly as many as a powerhouse like Nationwide. Symetra was founded in 1957 and is based in Bellevue, Wash. Policy Types & Riders Available Policy Types Term lifeIndex universal lifeVariable universal lifeNo-medical-exam life (term) Available Riders Term conversionChild termWaiver of premiumAccidental death benefitTerminal illness Best for Financial Strength, Best for Customer Satisfaction : Thrivent Thrivent Financial Strength Rating: A++Complaints: Much better than expected for company size Get a Quote (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It Best for Financial Strength Thrivent’s A++ grade from credit rating agency AM Best is the highest possible, indicating what Best calls a “superior ability to meet ongoing insurance obligations.” Note that Thrivent is a member-owned organization for Christians. To sign up, you’ll need to sign a statement saying that you or your spouse is Christian. If you’re applying for
