---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/#cybersecurity
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:49.420497+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
begin to rebuild. How Long Will My Money Last in Retirement? Wondering how long your money will last in retirement? Estimate how much money you might need to retire, learn how to track your spending and more. Personal Finance Discover personal finance tips and tricks around everything from managing your money to saving and planning for the future. What Is a Digital Wallet? With a smartphone in everyone’s pocket, digital wallets are increasing in popularity. What is a digital wallet? Comparing Auto Loans: New Car Loans vs Used Car Loans Is it better to finance a new or used car? We compare the advantages of buying a new car vs. a used car. Learn more with Equifax. What Is Inflation? Inflation has a big impact on your finances. Learn what inflation is, what causes it, how you can spot the signs of inflation and how you can help better protect yourself. Debt Management Learn how debt can affect your credit scores, plus the different types of debt (both good and bad), and best practices for paying it off. What Is a Debt Consolidation Loan? Does Debt Consolidation Hurt Your Credit? When considering debt consolidation, it's good to know how this repayment strategy might impact your credit. At Equifax, we cover why debt consolidation may be a good idea, including the pros and cons. What Is Wage Garnishment? A wage garnishment is when money is withheld from an employee’s earnings to pay back debt. Learn about garnished wages and what to do if it happens to you. What Can a Debt Collection Agency Do? Collection agencies are used by creditors and lenders to collect funds that are past due or in default. Learn more about your rights and what collection agencies can and cannot do. Credit Cards Explore tips on getting the right credit card for you and what it means for your credit. Plus, managing credit card debt and what to do if you lost your card. What Is Credit Card Fraud? Learn about the different types of credit card fraud, including card cloning and skimming. See how you can better protect yourself and your finances. You Ask, Equifax Answers: How Often Do Credit Card Companies Report to the Credit Bureaus? How often do your credit card providers report your information to the three Nationwide Credit Reporting Agencies? Does it vary from card to card? What Are Pre-Approved Credit Card Offers? Pre-approved credit cards are offered from credit card companies to qualifying consumers. Learn exactly what you need to know about pre-approved credit cards and how to access any offers you might receive. Loans Explore the nuances of the different types of loans, including personal and student loans, and the potential pros and cons of co-signing a loan. What is a Co-Signer? Before you co-sign a loan or lease, be sure to understand the pros and cons, as well as the responsibilities that come with being a co-signer. How Can Student Loans Affect Credit Reports? Similar to other financial commitments, student loans -- and how you repay them -- can appear on credit reports and can impact credit scores, for better or worse. Can I Get a Loan With Bad Credit? If you're concerned your credit scores may hurt your ability to get a loan or line of credit, there are some steps you can take and options you can consider. Cybersecurity Understand how to shop online more safely, how to create and store stronger passwords, and more. Teaching Your Kids About Internet Safety You can begin educating kids about basic Internet safety even at an early age. Here's a guide to what to talk about with kids as they grow older. Shopping Online? Help Keep Your Identity and Financial Information Safe There's no denying that online shopping can be convenient. Here are some suggestions to help avoid ID theft
