---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-bankruptcy-discharge/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:36.472368+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:15 GMT
---
your best interest to commit to paying your bills for loans, credit cards and other debts on time. Just one payment that's overdue by 30 days or more can hurt your scores significantly, so consider setting up autopay to avoid missing a payment. - Get a secured credit card. After filing bankruptcy, old credit cards may be canceled and you may not qualify for new onesâexcept for secured credit cards. A secured card requires making a cash deposit, typically a few hundred dollars. The deposit serves as the credit limit; if you don't pay your bill, the card issuer can keep it. Using a secured credit card regularly and paying your bills on time each month can help rebuild your credit score. - Consider a credit-builder loan. Available from some credit unions, online lenders, community banks and lending circles, credit-builder loans are designed to help you save some money while improving your credit. Loans are typically for less than $1,000, with a repayment term that's usually six to 24 months. Instead of giving you the cash, the lender places the loan proceeds in an interest-bearing savings account you can't access. If you make all your payments as agreed, you'll build a positive payment history and receive the money (plus interest) when the loan is paid off. - Avoid repeating past mistakes. Review the financial missteps that led to bankruptcy and commit to adopting positive habits so you don't end up in trouble again. Working with a certified credit counselor can help you learn to budget, manage your money and escape the paycheck-to-paycheck cycle that may have led to bankruptcy. - Learn more: How to Repair Your Credit Frequently Asked Questions The Bottom Line The decision to file bankruptcy shouldn't be made lightly, but a bankruptcy discharge can give you a fresh start on rebuilding your credit. Three to six months after receiving a bankruptcy discharge, it's a good idea to check your credit reports at the three national credit bureaus (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax) to make sure your discharged accounts are updated accurately. If not, you have the right to dispute the items on your credit report. Experian's free credit monitoring service can help you track your progress as you begin your journey back to healthy credit. You'll get access to your FICOÂ® ScoreÎ and receive alerts of important changes to your credit report. Instantly raise your FICOÂ® Score for free Use Experian BoostÂ® to get credit for the bills you already pay like utilities, mobile phone, video streaming services and now rent. No credit card required About the author Karen Axelton is Experianâs in-house senior personal finance writer. She has over 20 years of experience as a journalist and has written or ghostwritten content for a variety of financial services companies. Read more from Karen
