---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/articles/active-trading/120914/how-buy-stock-insurance-companies.asp
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:39.365930+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
theft. In exchange for the insurance coverage, the policyholder pays the insurer premiums, which are invested to earn a profit for the company until they are needed to pay out claims. Investing in Insurance Companies Insurance companies have unique circumstances that make their analysis different from other financial institutions such as banks or lenders. All insurance companies have a set of future liabilities that they are contractually obliged to pay out given a qualifying event. As a result, they must invest premiums received conservatively in order to have a ready reserve of liquid assets on hand to pay out those claims. Insurance company portfolio managers utilize asset-liability management (ALM) by matching assets to liabilities; rather than the more familiar asset-only management that looks to maximize return while minimizing portfolio risk. Insurance company portfolios are therefore largely made up of fixed-income securities like high-quality bonds issued by the U.S. government or AAA-rated bonds from large corporations. Generally speaking, there are two general types of insurance companies outside the health sector: Life insurance and property and casualty insurance. Each has special considerations that investors should consider. Life Insurance Companies When evaluating life insurance companies, it is important to know that government regulation directs them to maintain an asset valuation reserve (AVR) as a cushion against substantial losses of portfolio value or investment income. Therefore, these companies tend to have less financial leverage at work than other kinds of financial institutions. This poses potential valuation problems since it implies that insurers value assets at market value but liabilities at book value. Actuarial science has developed mortality tables that are very good at determining on average when life insurance claims will come due as policyholders pass away. The size of those liabilities are also known in advance because life insurance policies are issued with stated death benefits which do not adjust with inflation. Since both the amount and expected timing of liabilities are fairly well known, these companies seek to invest in portfolios that match the size and duration of those liabilities. The amount of excess return, or the amount by which assets exceed liabilities is referred to as the surplus. Maximizing surplus value and stability are the main objectives of life insurance portfolios. Because life insurance policies typically do not pay a benefit for many years, the investment portfolio of these companies tend to consist of high-quality bonds with maturities many years out. Life insurance companies must also consider disintermediation risk when policyholders withdraw cash value (take loans against that cash value) from permanent policies causing increased demand for liquidity from the portfolio. This usually occurs during periods of high interest rates. At the same time, high interest rates cause the portfolios of insurers to decline since they are mainly invested in bonds, and the prices of bonds go down as interest rates go up. This combination of factors can lead to increased volatility of returns and greater risk during periods of high interest rates. Some of the largest publicly listed life insurance companies are: MetLife (MET), Prudential (PRU), Genworth Financial (GNW), Lincoln National (LNC), AXA (AXAHY:OTC) and Aegon (AEG). Investing in Property & Casualty Companies Asset-liability management is crucial to property and casualty companies as well, but the risk exposures of these companies vary from life insurers in a number of areas. While the product offerings are more diverse—home, automobile, motorcycle, boat, liability, umbrella, flood etc.—the durations of these liabilities are much shorter: generally a year or less per policy. Therefore, the investment portfolios of these companies will tend to consist of high-quality bonds with maturities of a few months to a year. Additionally, claims can take a long time to be resolved and paid out. The claims process can be contentious and possibly spend years in litigation before the claim is paid – if it is paid at all. Many non-life
