---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/preventing-fraud/security-freeze/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:01.596650+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
your credit. It may take up to three days for a bureau to freeze your credit after they receive your letter. Learn more: How to Keep Your Social Security Number Safe What Does a Credit Freeze Do? Freezing your credit limits access to your credit report. When your credit report is frozen, the credit bureau won't share your credit report, or a credit score based on the report, with companies that want to check your credit after you apply for a new credit account. As a result, a credit freeze can help keep someone from: Getting a loan in your name - Opening a credit card in your name - For example, when you apply for a credit card or loan, the creditor will usually check your credit history and score to determine if you qualify and what rates and terms to offer you on a new account. If your credit report is frozen, the creditor won't get access to your report or score and may automatically deny your application or tell you that the application is pending. Take note that a credit freeze doesn't prevent fraud from occurring on your existing accounts. Fraudsters can still steal your physical credit cards, skim account numbers and take over your online accounts. Therefore it's important to routinely monitor your financial accounts and credit reports for signs of fraud. Learn more: What Is Credit Card Fraud? Who Can View Your Frozen Credit Report? Although freezing your credit reports limits access to that credit report, it doesn't block access completely. The credit bureau could still send your report to people and companies when they request your credit report for a situation that doesn't involve opening a new credit account. For example, you can always check your own credit reports whether or not they're frozen. Additionally, a credit bureau may create and send a credit report to: Your current creditors: Creditors may check your credit reports and scores while managing your account. For example, credit card issuers might raise your credit limit if your credit score increases. - Companies responding to non-credit applications: Companies might want to check your credit when you apply for a job, insurance policy, apartment rental, phone account or utility account. - Creditors and marketing companies: Some companies create credit-based filters to screen consumers and send them offers of credit. You can opt out of prescreened credit offers online or by phone. - Government agents: Government agents might ask for your credit report to help them comply with a court order or warrant. - Debt collectors: A debt collector or debt collection agency might use your credit report to find your contact information. - Identity verification companies: Companies might verify your identity or work with a third-party identity verification company that uses the personal information in your credit report to help confirm your identity. - These types of credit checks are recorded as soft inquiries, which don't affect your credit scores. How to Unfreeze Your Credit If you want to apply for a new credit account, you'll need to remember to unfreeze, or thaw, your credit reports first. Similar to freezing your credit, you'll have to thaw each report separately, and you can do this online, by phone or by mail. You'll also be able to choose between a: Permanent thaw: Unfreeze the report indefinitely. - Temporary thaw: Schedule when you want your report to be unfrozen and refrozen. - Unfreezing your report by phone or online might take a few minutes, although it often happens nearly instantaneously. Legally, the bureaus have up to an hour to lift a freeze. Scheduling a temporary thaw could be the easiest option. You can schedule thaws for when you know you're going to apply for a new account, and then have your reports automatically refrozen the next day. How to Freeze Your Child's Credit
