---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-the-average-credit-score-in-the-u-s/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:26.800261+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:28 GMT
---
stable as national trends. Since 2019, average credit scores have improved in all 50 states and Washington, D.C. States showing improvement in average FICOÂ® Scores, including Idaho, Maine and South Carolina, are all states that have received an influx of new residents from other parts of the country. Gains in Northern Plains and Midwestern states were more modest; however, many of these states already had robust average credit scores, leaving them little room for further improvement. Change in Average FICOÂ® Scores From 2019 to 2024 Average Credit Scores by Age Most generations increased their average FICOÂ® Score by a single point in 2024, although Generation X, currently carrying more debt than other generations, remained at its 2023 average score. (The Silent Generation, born prior to 1946, has been at a healthy average of 760 for four consecutive years.) Generation (Age) | 2023 | 2024 | ---|---|---| Generation Z (18-27) | 680 | 681 | ---|---|---| Millennials (28-43) | 690 | 691 | ---|---|---| Generation X (44-59) | 709 | 709 | ---|---|---| Baby boomers (60-78) | 745 | 746 | ---|---|---| Silent Generation (79+) | 760 | 760 | ---|---|---| Source: Experian data from September of each year; ages as of 2024 Despite slowing and stalling averages, all younger generations sport average scores in the good credit score range of 670 to 739. Older generations have, on average, very good scores in the 740 to 799 range. Either range of scores generally qualifies consumers for offers of credit, although those with very good scores may receive better terms. Nonetheless, credit scores are not the only factor lenders use to determine whether to extend credit. Get your FICOÂ® ScoreÎÂ for free Distribution of Consumer Credit Scores by Score Range FICOÂ® Scores are composed of five score ranges. The vast majority of consumersâ71%âhave good or better credit scores, according to Experian data. FICOÂ® Score Range | 2023 | 2024 | ---|---|---| Poor (300 - 579) | 12.6% | 13.2% | ---|---|---| Fair (580 - 669) | 15.8% | 15.5% | ---|---|---| Good (670 - 739) | 21.6% | 21.0% | ---|---|---| Very good (740 - 799) | 28.1% | 27.8% | ---|---|---| Exceptional (800 - 850) | 21.9% | 22.5% | ---|---|---| Source: Experian data from September of each year A credit score is one ingredient that's considered when a credit card application is submitted, although card issuers will likely also consider the applicant's outstanding debt and income before deciding how much credit they're willing to extend. Credit scores in the good range may open doors for obtaining low credit card APRs and also most other types of consumer loans, such as auto loans, mortgages and personal loans. What Are the FICOÂ® Score Ranges? The base FICOÂ® Score 8, the score most widely used by lenders, ranges from 300 to 850. Range | Rating | ---|---| 300-579 | Poor | ---|---| 580-669 | Fair | ---|---| 670-739 | Good | ---|---| 740-799 | Very good | ---|---| 800-850 | Exceptional | ---|---| Key FICOÂ® Score Factors There are five factors that build a consumer's credit score: Payment history (35%): This is the most influential part of your FICOÂ® Score. Regularly making payments on time is key to building good credit, while even a single late payment can do serious damage. - Amounts owed (30%): This looks at how much credit you're using in both installment loans and revolving accounts like credit cards. High revolving account balances relative to your credit limitsâanything above 30% of the total credit availableâcan drag your score down. - Length of credit history (15%): Credit scoring models consider how long your credit accounts have been activeâespecially the oldest, the newest and the average age of your accounts. Generally, the longer your credit history, the better for your score. - Credit mix (10%): This reflects the variety of credit
