---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/20-types-of-identity-theft-and-fraud/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:50.839144+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:50 GMT
---
or if you suspect your card number may have been compromised. Study your card statements closely and report any unauthorized transactions to the card issuer immediately. 6. Social Security Number Identity Theft Social Security number (SSN) identity theft happens when a criminal gets their hands on your SSN. When someone has your SSN, they can use it to steal your money or commit other acts of fraud by impersonating you. How this type of fraud happens: Unlike personal information that can be found in public records, SSNs are typically kept confidential and used to verify your identity with trusted institutions. Possession of your SSN can provide criminals with access to a wealth of personal records, which they can exploit in a variety of ways. Scammers may gain access to your SSN by: Stealing your Social Security card - Transcribing your SSN when you read it aloud - Obtaining it in a data breach - How to avoid it: Don't carry your Social Security card in your wallet, and keep it in a secure place such as a safety deposit box. If you're asked for your SSN to verify your identity, see if the final four digits will suffice. Whether providing a full or partial SSN, make sure you know the party you're providing it to and that you do so in a way others cannot overhear. If you suspect criminals have obtained your Social Security number via a data breach or any other means, monitor your credit reports, financial statements and medical accounts closely for signs of abuse, and report suspicious activity to law enforcement as appropriate. Learn more: Here's What You Should Do After a Data Breach 7. Senior Identity Theft and Scams Senior citizens can be targets of many types of fraud, but their reliance on Medicare and Social Security can make them especially susceptible to criminals posing as representatives of government agencies and health care providers. How this type of fraud happens: Using convincing emails, letters or phone contact, scammers earn victims' trust and persuade them to hand over money or sensitive information. For example, they may ask you to "pay back" bogus overpayments or give up Social Security numbers or other personal data that can be used for other criminal ends. Their approach typically leverages "official" authority and may include persuasion and scare tactics. For example, they may say, "Your benefits will end unless you act immediately." How to avoid it: Beware of any unexpected contact that requires immediate action, especially if it involves making a payment or providing SSNs or financial account information. Before responding to unexpected communication from government agencies or health care companies, confirm that it really comes from the source in question. Rather than providing information when an organization contacts you, call or email the relevant agency using contact info you look up online or on your account statement and verify whether there's a legitimate reason for the contact. Never give your SSN or financial information to someone who calls you and asks for it, especially if they're seeking information they should already have on file. Legitimate attempts to recover misplaced funds will always be made by mail. "Authorities" insisting on immediate paymentâespecially in the form of gift cards or electronic funds transferâmay well be scammers. Learn more: Top Scams Targeting Seniors 8. Child Identity Theft Child identity theft is any kind of identity theft that targets minors. It can be especially difficult to detect child identity theft because the telltale signs may go undetected until the child applies for credit, usually after age 18. How this type of fraud happens: Criminals may be able to use minor children's Social Security numbers and other credentials to take out illicit credit card accounts and to commit other forms of identity theft, much as they do with adults' personal information. How to avoid it:
