---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/credit-cards/articles/-/learn/credit-card-fraud/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:50.547488+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
protect yourself. Protect your credit card data from digital theft. Make sure your computer’s digital security is up to date. Consider installing a full suite of high-quality antiviral software to protect against malware, especially if you often make purchases or bank online. Don’t store your credit card information in your browser or your online retail accounts, and use password encryption if you can. - Inspect ATMs and gas pumps before use. The best way to prevent skimming is to look before you insert your card, especially into ATMs and gas pumps. Skimmers on ATMs typically fit over the original card reader. If the reader appears loose, damaged or bulky, do not use it. Check the keyboard for signs of tampering and try to prevent your PIN from being captured by a camera when you enter it. It’s also a good idea to avoid non-bank ATMs altogether, as they are common targets for skimming. Gas pump skimmers are usually installed inside the machine. If you can, use a pump that’s visible to the gas station attendant and located close to the storefront, or pay inside instead. If you see security tape on a pump and the seal is broken, don’t use it. - Use a credit card with a microchip. Make sure your credit card includes a tiny processor called a microchip. Unlike a magnetic strip, which simply stores information, a microchip encrypts your account data, making your card much less susceptible to skimming and cloning. - Choose your card carefully. If credit card fraud does occur, the Fair Credit Billing Act limits your liability for unauthorized purchases to $50, but it may also be in your best interest to find a card that offers $0 fraud liability. While common, a $0 lability benefit is not standard, so be sure to read the terms of prospective credit cards carefully before applying. - Use transaction alerts. You can manually monitor your debit and credit accounts for unrecognized spending, but it’s also a good idea to enable automated transaction alerts. Most banks and credit card companies give you the option of receiving instant notifications when your card is used to make a purchase over a certain amount. These alerts can help you catch fraud early and take action to stop it in its tracks. - What can you do if you’re a victim of credit card fraud? If you or a loved one has fallen victim to credit card fraud, be sure to report the issue through the proper channels. Reach out to your bank or credit card issuer as soon as possible to dispute fraudulent charges made with your account and request a new credit card. Consider updating your passwords and other security features for any accounts associated with your card. You can also file a scam report with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) either online at ReportFraud.ftc.gov or by phone at 877-382-4357. Get your free credit score today! We get it, credit scores are important. A monthly free credit score & Equifax credit report are available with Equifax Core CreditTM. No credit card required.
