---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-card-payoff-calculator/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:11.290725+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
money along the way. Consolidating credit card debt involves paying off your existing debt with a new credit card or personal loan, preferably with better terms. Here's a breakdown of how each debt consolidation option works: Balance transfer credit cards: With a balance transfer credit card, you can transfer debt from one or more existing cards to a new one. Many balance transfer cards offer an introductory 0% APR promotion, which means you can pay off your debt interest-free during the promotional period. Some of these cards charge an upfront fee of up to 5% of the transfer amount, but that may be worth it for the interest savings. - Personal loans: You can use personal loans for just about anything, including debt consolidation. On average, personal loans charge lower interest rates than credit cards, and you may be able to get a rate in the single digits if your credit is excellent. Personal loans also offer the benefit of set repayment terms instead of just giving you a minimum payment. - Regardless of which option you choose, it's important to avoid racking up balances on your paid-off credit cardsâotherwise, you could end up in an even more difficult financial situation. How Does Credit Card Debt Impact Your Credit Score? Your credit utilization rateâthe percentage of your available credit that you're using at any given timeâis an important indicator of how you manage debt. As a result, it's one of the major factors that help determine your credit score. If you're bumping up against your credit limits, it could be damaging your score considerably. In other words, paying off your credit card debt can improve your credit and your overall financial well-being. As you work on paying down your debt, make sure to check your credit score regularly to keep track of your progress. This practice can also help you spot other areas of your credit history that you can address to increase your credit score. Donât apply blindly Apply for credit cards and loans confidently with personalized offers based on your credit profile. Get started with your FICOÂ® Score for free. Shop personalized offersExplore more topics Auto lease calculator - Reverse car loan calculator - Car payment calculator - APR calculator - Savings calculator - Mortgage calculator - Mortgage affordability calculator - Balloon mortgage calculator - Biweekly mortgage calculator - Extra payments mortgage calculator - Interest only mortgage calculator - Mortgage insurance calculator - Mortgage payoff calculator - Mortgage prequalification calculator - Mortgage points calculator - Personal loan calculator -
