---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/how-to-pay-off-credit-card-debt/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:09.482731+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
Start with your recurring bills, such as monthly payments for entertainment. Example: If you have multiple streaming services but don't use one very often, consider cutting it temporarily until you've paid off your debt. In addition to regular bills, understand how you spend your money every day. If you tend to go out for lunch during the week, for example, bringing food from home can free up some cash flow. Also look at your entertainment expenses, clothing budget, travel costs and other areas where you may be able to shift some money toward credit card payoff. You don't necessarily need to change your lifestyle permanently, but making small, temporary changes now can put you in a better financial position in the future. 7. Debt Management Plan If your credit is in bad shape or you're struggling to keep up with payments, a debt management plan may be an option to consider. A debt management plan is a repayment plan you can enter into with help from a reputable credit counseling agency. A credit counselor will notify your creditors that you're using a debt management plan and will typically try to negotiate lower interest rates and monthly payments. Debt management plans typically take three to five years, depending on how much you owe and your ability to pay. Your card issuers may choose to close your accounts, which could hurt your credit, but it can be better than debt settlement or bankruptcy. Debt management plans aren't expensive, but expect to pay a modest upfront and ongoing monthly fee throughout the plan's term. Frequently Asked Questions Take the First Step Regardless of how much you owe, the task of paying off your credit card debt can feel daunting. But the sooner you take the first step toward your goal, the easier it will be and the faster you'll achieve it. Keep in mind, too, that your strategy may change over time as your financial situation changes. Be willing to evaluate your plan regularly and make adjustments as needed. Paying off credit card debt can take months or even years, but the effort is well worth it. Throughout the process, monitor your credit regularly to track your progress. Find out what debts you owe Your free credit report lists all your debts, such as credit card balances and loans, helping you create a plan to tackle your debt and improve your financial health. Review your creditAbout the author Ben Luthi has worked in financial planning, banking and auto finance, and writes about all aspects of money. His work has appeared in Time, Success, USA Today, Credit Karma, NerdWallet, Wirecutter and more. Read more from Ben
