---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/average-savings-by-age/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:30.501621+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:56 GMT
---
developed will carry you forward into retirement. That said, it's not too late to get help, take stock or catch up. Get financial advice. Meet with a retirement planner. Talk to your tax advisor. Ask your retired friends to share their experiences (and referrals). With major changes aheadâand plenty of changes happening nowâexpertise certainly doesn't hurt. - Catch up if you need to. The IRS lets you make additional contributions to your 401(k) plan and IRA accounts when you're 50 and older. In 2025, you can make a super-sized catch-up contribution of up to $11,250 to your 401(k) if you're 60 to 63, bringing your maximum contribution up to $34,750. - Earn Money Faster Compare high-yield savings accounts Find a high-yield savings account with todayâs APY. Compare current APY and offers to find the best savings account for you. How Much to Save by Age Looking at transaction account balances provides one perspective on saving. Here's another: The investment firm Fidelity offers guidelines to help retirement savers better understand how much they should have saved by age 30, 40, 50, 60 and retirement age, 67. According to Fidelity, here's how much to aim for saving by each milestone birthday: Age 30: One times your salary - Age 40: Three times your salary - Age 50: Six times your salary - Age 60: Eight times your salary - Age 67: 10 times your salary - Of course, these are only estimates. Your individual retirement needs will vary depending on your housing costs, lifestyle, Social Security benefits, medical expenses, lifespan and more. Still, these calculations can give you a quick gauge on your progress toward retirement. If you're about to celebrate your 30th birthday and you have a year's salary in your 401(k), cut yourself an extra slice of cake. Learn more: How Much Will You Spend in Retirement? How to Increase Your Savings If you want to increase your savings and save consistently over time, try creating a savings strategy. Regularly setting aside a portion of your income and making a plan for retirement contributions, emergency savings, special purpose "sinking" funds and tax-advantaged savings for college or health care can help keep your savings on track. Need an additional boost? Here are a few extra tips. 1. Get a Handle on Spending Make a budget, track your spending and look for ways to reduce your expenses, both right now and over the long term. As examples, consider putting half of your annual bonus into a CD for safekeeping, or cancel an unwanted streaming subscription and send the payment amount to savings every month. 2. Automate Your Savings Setting up your bank accounts to send an automatic transfer to your savings account every month (or every paycheck) makes saving effortless and helps increase the chances that you'll save consistently. And if out of sight is out of mind, you may never miss the money. 3. Pay Down Debt Making monthly debt payments cuts into the amount you can allocate toward spending and saving. Pay down high-interest credit card debt, which can grow quickly through interest charges alone. Paying off car loans, personal loans or student loans frees up money you can route directly to savings. 4. Mind Your APYs The interest you earn on your savings can make a huge difference over time. As of November 2024, the difference between the annual percentage yield (APY) of a typical savings account and a top high-yield savings account can be greater than 4%. The additional interest you earn grows your balance with no additional effort on your part. At 0.02% APY, $5,000 earns $1 in a year. At 4.5%, it earns $230. Five years later, the high-interest account has a balance of $6,262 while the low-interest account has $5,005. Learn more: Simple Ways to Save Money Where to Keep Your Savings Three options to
