---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-long-after-paying-off-a-credit-card-will-my-credit-score-go-up/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:47.790147+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:35 GMT
---
far as freezing their cards in a block of ice). A few tips to consider: Use your credit card regularly. Regularly using your credit card demonstrates your ability to manage debt well and ensures the account isn't closed due to lack of use. A monthly bill as small as a streaming service payment can keep your account open and reflect positively in your credit. - Always pay your bill on time. As a safeguard, consider setting up your account to make automatic minimum payments right before your due dateâjust make sure you have enough in your bank account to cover the payments. Payment history accounts for more than a third (35%) of your FICOÂ® Score. - Lock cards you don't plan to use. Some card companies let you turn your cards "off" through their mobile app as an added security measure. This keeps the account open, but can protect you from credit card fraud that could drive up your balances. - Make a payoff strategy before you spend. Using your credit cards may earn you rewards or other benefits like extended warranty protection, but these perks lose their luster if you have to pay interest on a balance you're struggling to pay off. Before you spend, establish a game plan for paying your purchase off over a reasonable period of time. - Building and Maintaining Good Credit Paying off a credit card is a milestone to celebrate, as is the bump to your credit score that could result. You can more closely track the changes to your credit scoresâand keep an eye on your score moving forwardâby signing up for free credit monitoring with Experian. You'll have access to your Experian credit score and report and can set up alerts to let you know when changes occur to your credit file. Paying down debt, monitoring your credit and using your credit wisely will all help set you on a path toward building and maintaining good credit. Donât apply blindly Apply for credit cards confidently with personalized offers based on your credit profile. Get started with your FICOÂ® Score for free. See your offersAbout the author Gayle Sato writes about financial services and personal financial wellness, with a special focus on how digital transformation is changing our relationship with money. As a business and health writer for more than two decades, she has covered the shift from traditional money management to a world of instant, invisible payments and on-the-fly mobile security apps. Read more from Gayle
