---
source_url: https://www.usa.gov/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:00.796570+00:00
last_updated: Sat, 07 Feb 2026 01:13:51 GMT
---
Making government services easier to find USA.gov helps you locate and understand government benefits, programs, and information. How do I ... Government benefits and financial assistance Discover government benefits that you may be eligible for and learn how to apply. All topics and services The U.S. and its government Learn about U.S. laws, history, and more. Buy government property. Contact elected officials and federal agencies. - Complaints File complaints involving government agencies, telemarketers, products and services, travel, housing, and banking. - Disability services Find government benefits and programs for people with disabilities and their families. - Disasters and emergencies Learn about disaster assistance and find government benefits for other emergencies. - Education Learn about Federal Student Aid and studying in the U.S. Find early intervention, special education, and Head Start programs. - Government benefits Find government programs that may help pay for food, housing, health care, and more. - Health Get information about health insurance. Find help for mental health and other medical conditions, testing, and paying medical bills. - Housing help Learn about rental and buyer assistance programs. Find emergency housing and avoid eviction. - Immigration and U.S. citizenship Learn about U.S. residency, Green Cards, citizenship requirements, and related issues. - Jobs, labor laws, and unemployment Get resources for finding a job. Learn about unemployment insurance and important labor laws. - Laws and legal issues Learn how to replace vital records, get child support enforcement, find legal help, and more. - Military and veterans Learn how to join the military. Find benefits and services as a member or veteran, including how to apply for housing, financial, health, and other support. - Money and credit Find government grants, loans, and unclaimed money. Learn about taxes. Get credit reports and scores. - Scams and fraud Learn about identity theft, Social Security scams, and how to report scams and fraud. - Small business Learn how to start, fund, and manage your own business. Understand how to get import and export licenses. - Taxes Learn about filing federal income tax. Find out how to pay, how to check your refund, and more. - Travel Learn about passports, travel documents for minors, and travel to, from, and within the U.S. - Voting and elections Find out how to register to vote, where your voting location is, how presidential elections work, and more about voting in the United States. - Life events Discover government benefits and services to help you and your family through every stage of life. -
