---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-secured-loan/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:25.098955+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:17 GMT
---
through review and get approved. As an example, getting approved for a mortgage can be time-intensive and requires appraisal and inspection. - What Happens if You Default on a Secured Loan? The consequences of defaulting on a secured loan depend on how far you fall behind on your payments and on the specific terms of the secured loan you've borrowed. In general, missing a payment on your debt can result in lender-assessed late fees. Being at least 30 days late on a payment can result in a late payment showing on your credit report and damaging your credit score. If you stop making payments on the loan altogether, the lender can seize your collateral. In most instances, the lender's repossession of collateral assets can remain on a borrower's credit report for up to seven years. What sort of grace period you have between missing a payment and losing your asset depends on the terms of your loan contract. That's why it's imperative that you review the loan's terms before you apply, in addition to ensuring you can afford to repay the loan on time. How to Avoid Default on a Secured Loan If you're struggling to afford payments on your secured loan, act quickly to avoid missing payments. Here's how to avoid default if you start having trouble repaying your loan: Review your budget. The first step you should take if you're struggling to repay debt is to do a deep dive into your budget. Tally up your income and then review your basic expenses to determine the root of the cash flow problem. - Reduce expenses. If your basic living expenses are putting you in the red, you'll need to find a way to reduce your cost of living, such as by lowering your bills. If your basic living expenses leave you with enough income to get by, then reducing your discretionary spending may be enough to free up funds and manage your debt. Cutting back can be a challenge, but make avoiding default your priority. - Increase your income. If possible, look for ways to increase your income such as through taking on extra shifts or a side gig. Flexible work such as driving for a ride-hailing service or offering babysitting and pet sitting through an app may allow you to bring in spare cash around your current schedule. - Contact your lender. Communication is key if you're at risk of falling behind on a secure loan payment. Make sure you reach out to your lender as soon as you realize you'll have a hard time making payments. They may be willing to offer you forbearance or offer another way to avoid the consequences of default. - Seek credit counseling. If you're struggling to afford your debts, reach out to a nonprofit credit counselor. Credit counselors can help you review your finances and come up with a plan that works for you. They may help you manage your debt by budgeting, and in some cases, they may suggest a debt management plan. - The Bottom Line A secured loan can help you borrow for a variety of goals, from buying a home or a car to covering a major expense. But these collateral-backed loan products also have substantial risks. As a borrower, it's important to weigh the risks against the benefits when considering a secured loan and ensure you have a strong plan and budget to repay the loan before you borrow. When it comes to personal loans, a secured loan may be cheaper, but an unsecured loan won't put your property at risk. Consider other ways to save on personal loan interest rates. Start by checking your credit report and credit score for free through Experian. If possible, take steps to improve your credit before you borrow. A higher score can broaden your borrowing options. Plus, it
