---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-credit-card-balance/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:40.294668+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:15 GMT
---
until all your cards are paid off. - Use the debt avalanche method. The debt avalanche method focuses on paying down the balances with the highest interest rates first. After making minimum payments on all your cards, put any extra money toward the one with the highest annual percentage rate (APR). Focus on paying this card down first, followed by the card with the next-highest rate and so on. - Get a balance transfer card. You may qualify for a balance transfer credit card that offers a low or 0% introductory APR on balances transferred from an existing card. If you commit to paying off the balance before the promotional period ends, this could save you a significant amount of money on interest. There's typically a balance transfer fee of 3% to 5% of the amount transferred. - Get a debt consolidation loan. A debt consolidation loan is a personal loan you can use to pay off credit card debt, replacing several credit card payments with one monthly payment, usually at a lower interest rate. When deciding if a debt consolidation loan is right for you, consider the loan's interest rate, the total cost of borrowing and any penalties or fees. - Learn more: What Happens if You Only Pay the Minimum on Your Credit Card? Frequently Asked Questions The Bottom Line Understanding the differences between your credit card balance, statement balance and minimum payment can help you better manage your credit card payments and keep debt under control. Making timely payments can also help improve your credit score. You can use Experian's free credit monitoring tools to see how your credit card balances and utilization rates affect your credit scores. Donât apply blindly Apply for credit cards confidently with personalized offers based on your credit profile. Get started with your FICOÂ® Score for free. See your offersAbout the author Karen Axelton is Experianâs in-house senior personal finance writer. She has over 20 years of experience as a journalist and has written or ghostwritten content for a variety of financial services companies. Read more from Karen
