---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-the-average-credit-score-in-the-u-s/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:26.800261+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:28 GMT
---
most influential part of your FICOÂ® Score. Regularly making payments on time is key to building good credit, while even a single late payment can do serious damage. - Amounts owed (30%): This looks at how much credit you're using in both installment loans and revolving accounts like credit cards. High revolving account balances relative to your credit limitsâanything above 30% of the total credit availableâcan drag your score down. - Length of credit history (15%): Credit scoring models consider how long your credit accounts have been activeâespecially the oldest, the newest and the average age of your accounts. Generally, the longer your credit history, the better for your score. - Credit mix (10%): This reflects the variety of credit types under your name, such as credit cards, auto loans and mortgages. Successfully managing different forms of credit can have a positive effect on credit score calculations. - New credit (10%): Applying for credit typically results in a hard inquiry that can temporarily lower your score by a few points. - Average Credit Card Usage One factor that impacts a consumer's credit score is how much credit they're effectively using, particularly when it comes to their credit card utilization. Credit cards have limits, of course, and using a small portion of the amount of credit extended can potentially have a positive effect on credit scores. Many savvy consumers now know this and are mindful about keeping balances low. Average Credit Card Utilization Ratio | ---| 2023 | 29% | ---|---| 2024 | 29% | ---|---| Source: Experian data from September of each year As for credit usage data, put another check in the sideways column. Although credit card balances increased slightly in 2024, credit limits were increased proportionally, which left credit utilization levels steady at 29%. Credit utilization above 30% is the point at which it can begin to have greater negative effects on credit scores, which could impact not only future credit card offers but also mortgages, auto loans and other loan products. In general, the lower the utilization ratio, the better for credit scores. Score Range | Credit Usage | ---|---| Poor (300 - 579) | 91% | ---|---| Fair (580 - 669) | 61% | ---|---| Good (670 - 739) | 40% | ---|---| Very good (740 - 799) | 15% | ---|---| Exceptional (800 - 850) | 7% | ---|---| Source: Experian, September 2024 Delinquency Rates by Account Type Delinquency levels increased in the wake of the pandemic. Part of the uptick is likely due to the expiration of pandemic-related safety nets that allowed borrowersâespecially those with mortgages and student loansâsome additional time and relief in repaying their financial obligations. Now that economic activity has normalized, relatively speaking, so have the derogatory marks on credit reports that can drastically reduce FICOÂ® Scores. As of September 2024, 2.40% of credit card accounts were 30 or more days past due, according to Experian data. That's slightly lower than September 2023, when 2.45% of accounts were at least 30 days delinquent. Account Type | 2023 | 2024 | ---|---|---| Credit card | 2.45% | 2.40% | ---|---|---| Mortgage | 1.88% | 2.24% | ---|---|---| Auto loans | 3.51% | 3.68% | ---|---|---| Personal loans (unsecured) | 3.89% | 3.86% | ---|---|---| Source: Experian data from September of each year Delinquency rates for auto loans and personal loans were also very similar to 2023 levels. The only major credit category on the rise is mortgages, where delinquency levels increased from 1.88% in 2023 to 2.24% in 2024. But this elevated rate is still below pre-pandemic levels, which were as high as 2.48% in 2019. Even if the delinquency rate rose to 2019's high, however, it still wouldn't be close to levels associated with economic slowdown or recession. Is This as Good as It Gets for Consumers? All of these plateaus
