---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution-conan/article-1/section-4/clause-1/states-and-elections-clause
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:09:24.381205+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 06 Mar 2025 19:37:48 GMT
---
may be exercised at any time, and to any extent which it deems expedient.” ). - 16 - Shaw v. Reno, 509 U.S. 630 (1993); see also Wesberry v. Sanders, 376 U.S. 1 (1964); Wright v. Rockefeller, 376 U.S. 52 (1964); Baker v. Carr, 369 U.S. 186 (1962); Gomillion v. Lightfoot, 364 U.S. 339 (1960); Colegrove v. Green, 328 U.S. 549 (1946); Wood v. Broom, 287 U.S. 1 (1932). - 17 - Rucho v. Common Cause, No. 18-422, slip op. at 29 (U.S. June 2019). - 18 - Id. at 7. The Court observed that “[a]mong the political question cases the Court has identified are those that lack ‘judicially discoverable and manageable standards for resolving [them].’” Id. (quoting Baker v. Carr, 369 U.S. 186 (1962)); see also id. ( “This Court’s authority to act . . . ‘is grounded in and limited by the necessity of resolving according to legal principles, a plaintiff’s particular claim of legal right.’ The question here is whether there is an ‘appropriate role for the Federal Judiciary’ in remedying the problem of partisan gerrymandering—whether such claims are claims of legal right, resolvable according to legal principles, or political questions that must find their resolution elsewhere.” (quoting Gill v. Whitford, No. 16-1161, slip op. at 8, 13 (U.S. June 2018))). - 19 - Id. at 2. - 20 - Id. at 12. - 21 - Id. at 13 (citing Vieth v. Jubelirer, 541 U.S 267, 296 (2004) (plurality opinion)). See also Hunt v. Cromartie, 526 U.S. 541, 555 (1999) ( “Our prior decisions have made clear that a jurisdiction may engage in constitutional political gerrymandering . . . .” ). - 22 - Id. see also Vieth v. Jubelirer, 541 U.S. 267 (2004); Davis v. Bandemer, 478 U.S. 109 (1986);Gaffney v. Cummings, 412 U.S. 735 (1973)). In Gill v. Whitford, the Court observed that “this Court is not responsible for vindicating generalized partisan preferences. The Court’s constitutionally prescribed role is to vindicate the individual rights of the people appearing before it.” Gill v. Whitford, No. 16-1161, slip op. at 21 (U.S. June 2018). - 23 - Rucho, slip op. at 17; see also Vieth, 541 U.S. at 291 ( “'Fairness’ does not seem to us a judicially manageable standard. . . . Some criterion more solid and more demonstrably met than [fairness] seems to us necessary to enable the state legislatures to discern the limits of their districting discretion, to meaningfully constrain the discretion of the courts, and to win public acceptance for the courts’ intrusion into a process that is the very foundation of democratic decisionmaking.” ). - 24 - Rucho, slip op. at 9 ( “Congress has regularly exercised its Elections Clause power, including to address partisan gerrymandering.” ). - 25 - Husted v. A. Philip Randolph Inst., No. 16-960, slip op. at 25, 26 (U.S. June 11, 2018). - 26 - Moore v. Harper, No. 21-1271 (U.S. June 27, 2023). - 27 - Id. at 15. - 28 - Id. at 29. - 29 - Id. The Court further stated: “In interpreting state law in this area, state courts may not so exceed the bounds of ordinary judicial review as to unconstitutionally intrude upon the role specifically reserved to state legislatures by Article I, Section 4, of the Federal Constitution. Because we need not decide whether that occurred in today’s case, the judgment of the North Carolina Supreme Court is affirmed.” Id. at 30. - 30 - No. 13-1314 (2015). - 31 - Id. at 2–3. - 32 - Id. - 33 - Id. at 2. - 34 - Id. at 18. The Court also found that the use of the commission was permissible under 2 U.S.C. § 2a (c), a statutory provision that the Court construed as safeguarding to “each state full authority to employ in the creation of congressional districts its
