---
source_url: https://www.usa.gov/about-the-us
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:05.096118+00:00
last_updated: Sat, 07 Feb 2026 01:13:44 GMT
---
The U.S. and its government Get facts about the U.S., its laws, history, and statistics. Buy government property. Learn about the president and how to contact elected officials and federal agencies. Buying from the U.S. government Find out about surplus sales, collectibles, and other items available through purchase or auction. - U.S. facts and figures Learn about the United States, including American history, the president, holidays, the American flag, census data, and more. - A-Z index of U.S. government departments and agencies Get contact information for U.S. federal government agencies, departments, corporations, instrumentalities, and government-sponsored enterprises. Find websites, email, phone numbers, addresses, and more. - State and local governments Find contact information for state and local government services, your governor, and more. - Branches of the U.S. government Learn about the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the U.S. government. - Find and contact elected officials Get the names and contact information for your federal, state, and local elected officials. - Federal laws and regulations Get copies of your government files. Research federal laws and regulations. Learn about copyrights. - Federally recognized Indian tribes and resources for Native Americans Find information about and resources for Native Americans and Alaska Native entities. - Federal, state, territory, county, and municipal courts Learn about bankruptcy courts, immigration courts, and more. - Looking for something else? Explore all topics and services
