---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/data-breach-five-things-to-do-after-your-information-has-been-stolen/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:03.394902+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:22 GMT
---
Hereâs What You Should Do After a Data Breach Quick Answer If youâre notified that your personal information was exposed in a data breach, act immediately to change your passwords, add a fraud alert to your credit reports and consider placing a security freeze on your credit reports. Data breaches are incidents in which confidential information, including consumer data, is stolen from a company or organization. In the first half of 2024, the number of data breach victims surpassed 1 billion, according to the nonprofit Identity Theft Resource Center. That's a 490% increase from the same time last year, when the number of recorded victims was about 183 million. If your personal information was exposed in a data breach, the breached company may notify you. It's important to act quickly to secure your accounts and take preventive measures against fraud. Here are six steps to take if your information is exposed in a data breach. 1. Find Out What Data Was Compromised The measures you should take after a data breach depend on what information was exposed. Data breach notification letters often tell you what types of sensitive information may have been stolen. Sensitive information that could wind up in the hands of criminals or on the dark web after a data breach includes: Your full name - Email addresses - Your date of birth - Biometric data - Passwords and passcodes - Mailing addresses - Your Social Security number - The risk that you could become a victim of fraud after a data breach depends in part on the type of data that was compromised. Some types of data pose less threat when compromised than other types. For example, if your name and email address are stolen, the impact may just be some spam sent to your inbox. On the other hand, if highly sensitive data is exposed in a breach, the risk of fraud is higher. For example, if your Social Security number is exposed in a data breach, you may be at a heightened risk for identity theft or fraudulent credit applications in your name. 2. Secure Your Accounts Starting with any accounts specified in the breach notification, update the passwords and PINs you use to log in to your bank and credit card accounts. Accounts affected directly in a breach are at greatest risk, but access to any of your personal information heightens the risk that your other accounts could also be compromised. If you aren't already doing so, start implementing these good password hygiene practices to mitigate account security risks: Don't reuse passwords. Use unique passwords for each of your online accounts. Otherwise, a thief who's obtained login information for one account could be able to use the same information to gain access to others. - Consider a free password manager. Password managers generate unique, secure passwords and remember them for you. All you have to remember is one master password. There are many free options available, but password managers that charge a subscription fee may provide more robust features. - Enroll in two-factor authentication. Two-factor authentication requires you to get a confirmation code via text message or email before each login, to prove you're you. It adds a small step to the sign-in process, but it makes it much harder for password thieves to gain access. - 3. Monitor Your Financial Accounts and Credit Reports Keep tabs on your bank and financial accounts and set up any available alerts to notify you of activity on the account. Staying aware of unusual or unexpected activity on your account lets you detect potential scams early and allows you to report or investigate them promptly. Checking your credit report also can help you identify any unusual activity related to credit fraud and identity theft, such as the creation of loan or credit card accounts you don't recognize
