---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/life-stages/articles/-/learn/how-long-will-your-money-last-in-retirement/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:12.362926+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
How Long Will My Money Last in Retirement? Highlights: Your retirement needs will vary based on the age you retire, your life expectancy and the different expenses that you face in retirement. So, there's no one-size-fits-all solution for retirement planning. - Many experts recommend aiming for around 80% of your pre-retirement income. - It's important to find a safe withdrawal rate based on the amount of money you have saved and your long- and short-term retirement goals. - If you're lucky, your retirement will last for many years and be filled with family, travel and lots of new experiences. But as you plan for your life in retirement, inevitable questions arise. How much income will you need and how much money should you save to hit that target? How can you anticipate how long your savings will last? And how can you tell if you're on track to reach your goals? Unfortunately, there's no magic answer that fits every retiree. Even the most carefully considered retirement plans are somewhat of a guessing game because there's no way to know how long you might live after retiring. You also can't anticipate your medical needs or the other post-retirement expenses you might face. Many retirement planners suggest being prepared to spend about 80 percent of your highest pre-retirement income per year after leaving the workforce. Most people live another 10 to 20 years after retirement, so it's important to think about the long term when planning how much to save. To reach the 80% goal, experts suggest setting aside at least 15% of your annual pre-tax income for retirement. For example, if you earn $50,000 per year, it's a good idea to put around $7,500 per year toward your retirement savings. In this example the goal would be to end up with $40,000 in savings for every year spent in retirement. The amount you save may also be adjusted depending on whether you will be receiving additional retirement income such as Social Security benefits or a pension. What sources of income will you have in retirement? During retirement, your earnings will be replaced by alternate sources of income. These might come from government programs or from your own retirement planning. Common sources of income in retirement include: Social Security. Social Security is a government-administered insurance program that acts as the main source of income for many retirees. Throughout your career, part of your income is paid toward Social Security taxes. In return for these contributions, Social Security benefits replace a portion of your income when you retire. The amount of money you receive each month depends on your previous earnings, as well as the number of years you spent contributing to the Social Security program. - Pension. Some retirees will also enjoy a pension plan, also known as a defined benefit plan. A pension is a retirement arrangement in which an employer agrees to pay an employee a certain amount of money each month for the rest of the employee's life. These payments are like a thank you for the employee's many years of service. The monthly amount depends on the employee's years of service and their salary prior to retirement. Pensions are much less common retirement options today than they were in years past. Check with your human resources department to see if your company offers pension plans. - 401(k). Unlike pensions, many employers today offer a 401(k) retirement savings plan. In 2022, you can contribute up to $20,500 of your pre-tax income to the plan if you're under age 50, and up to $27,000 if you're aged 50 and older. You may want to take advantage of a 401(k) plan, especially if your employer offers a matching contribution. The retirement income that results from employer contributions is essentially free money and can really add up over time. - Individual Retirement
