---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/consumer-tools/educator-tools/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:51:59.348392+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Resources for Practitioners If you are a financial practitioner, educator or other professional who helps consumers plan and manage their money, these materials will help you strengthen your professional practice. Resources to share with the people you serve We have guides to help people understand and plan for big financial goals, answers to hundreds of financial questions, and more. Comparison shopping: Explore Credit Cards Comparison shopping is a key financial skill. The Explore Credit Cards tool helps people put this skill into practice. Select the card features you want and see apples-to-apples comparisons from our data set of hundreds of cards—no registration required and no paid promotions. Strengthen your outreach and engagement Measure and monitor financial well-being See research and best practices for coaching Use five principles for effective financial education Incorporate the building blocks of financial capability for children and youth Help front line staff increase financial empowerment Watch webinars and build your knowledge of money issues Tenant background checks: Help people understand their rights The CFPB has worked with other federal agencies to gather information that helps people understand tenant background checks (also called resident or tenant screening reports). You can share this information with the people you serve, so that they can spot problems and get help. Review tenants’ rights and protections and where to find help Helping groups in special situations Share these resources with people or groups you work with to help them improve their financial understanding and well-being. Helping people through your profession or organization Tools and materials you can use to strengthen your professional programs and offerings. Page last modified @
