---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
nature of the investigation for which the consumer report was sought. (C) Delegation by head of agency or department. For purposes of subparagraphs (A)and (B), the head of any agency or department of the United States Government may delegate his or her authorities under this paragraph to an official of such agency or department who has personnel security responsibilities and is a member of the Senior Executive Service or equivalent civilian or military rank. (D) Definitions. For purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions shall apply: (i) Classified information. The term “classified information” means information that is protected from unauthorized disclosure under Executive Order No. 12958 or successor orders. (ii) National security investigation. The term “national security investigation” means any official inquiry by an agency or department of the United States Government to determine the eligibility of a consumer to receive access or continued access to classified information or to determine whether classified information has been lost or compromised. (c) Furnishing reports in connection with credit or insurance transactions that are not initiated by the consumer. (1) In general. A consumer reporting agency may furnish a consumer report relating to any consumer pursuant to subparagraph (A) or (C) of subsection (a)(3) in connection with any credit or insurance transaction that is not initiated by the consumer only if (A) the consumer authorizes the agency to provide such report to such person; or (B) (i) the transaction consists of a firm offer of credit or insurance; (ii) the consumer reporting agency has complied with subsection (e); (iii) there is not in effect an election by the consumer, made in accordance with subsection (e), to have the consumer’s name and address excluded from lists of names provided by the agency pursuant to this paragraph; and § 604 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681b 17 (iv) the consumer report does not contain a date of birth that shows that the consumer has not attained the age of 21, or, if the date of birth on the consumer report shows that the consumer has not attained the age of 21, such consumer consents to the consumer reporting agency to such furnishing. (2) Limits on information received under paragraph (1)(B). A person may receive pursuant to paragraph (1)(B) only (A) the name and address of a consumer; (B) an identifier that is not unique to the consumer and that is used by the person solely for the purpose of verifying the identity of the consumer; and (C) other information pertaining to a consumer that does not identify the relationship or experience of the consumer with respect to a particular creditor or other entity. (3) Information regarding inquiries. Except as provided in section 609(a) (5) [§ 1681g], a consumer reporting agency shall not furnish to any person a record of inquiries in connection with a credit or insurance transaction that is not initiated by a consumer. (d) Reserved. (e) Election of consumer to be excluded from lists. (1) In general. A consumer may elect to have the consumer’s name and address excluded from any list provided by a consumer reporting agency under subsection (c)(1)(B) in connection with a credit or insurance transaction that is not initiated by the consumer, by notifying the agency in accordance with paragraph (2) that the consumer does not consent to any use of a consumer report relating to the consumer in connection with any credit or insurance transaction that is not initiated by the consumer. (2) Manner of notification. A consumer shall notify a consumer reporting agency under paragraph (1) (A) through the notification system maintained by the agency under paragraph (5); or (B) by submitting to the agency a signed notice of election form issued by the agency for purposes of this subparagraph. (3) Response of agency after notification through system. Upon receipt of notification of the election of a consumer
