---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/complaint/data-use/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:34.522137+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
anyone who is active duty, National Guard, or Reservist, as well as anyone who previously served and is a veteran or retiree. | Consumer consent provided? | Identifies whether the consumer opted in to publish their complaint narrative. We do not publish the narrative unless the consumer consents, and consumers can opt-out at any time. | Submitted via | How the complaint was submitted to the CFPB. For example, “Web” or “Phone.” | Date sent to company | The date the CFPB sent the complaint to the company. | Company response to consumer | This is how the company responded. For example, “Closed with explanation.” | Timely response? | Whether the company gave a timely response. For example, “Yes” or “No.” | Consumer disputed? | Whether the consumer disputed the company’s response. | Complaint ID | The unique identification number for a complaint. | We only share narratives with the consumer’s consent A consumer complaint narrative is the consumer-submitted description of “what happened” from the complaint. Consumers must opt-in to share their narrative. We will not publish the narrative unless the consumer consents, and consumers can opt-out at any time. In accordance with our narrative scrubbing standard , the CFPB takes reasonable steps to scrub personal information from each complaint that could be used to identify the consumer. We don’t publish personal information Personal information submitted as part of a complaint, such as names, contact information, account numbers, social security numbers, and supporting documents, helps the company identify the consumer. This information is not published in the Consumer Complaint Database. Read our latest annual report to Congress Ready to start your complaint? You can submit a complaint online now. It usually takes less than 10 minutes. Page last modified @
