---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/category/courts_and_procedure
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:10:42.430205+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
a fortiori A fortiori refers to an argument based on an even stronger previous argument. In Latin, the term literally means ‘from [the] stronger.’ The argument implies that if the first is true, the second is even more likely to be true. A fortiori refers to an argument based on an even stronger previous argument. In Latin, the term literally means ‘from [the] stronger.’ The argument implies that if the first is true, the second is even more likely to be true. A priori refers to an assertion based on prior knowledge or intuition. In Latin, the term literally means “from what is earlier.” An a priori determination is formed before investigation. For example, assuming that the road will be wet when it stops raining a minute before would be a priori reasoning. A priori is the opposite of a posteriori, or after-the-fact knowledge. An a priori assumption is an assumption that is presumed to be true without any assessment of the facts or without further proof. A.K.A. is the abbreviation of “also known as.” It is often used to specify a party’s aliases or nicknames in a case. [Last reviewed in November of 2024 by the Wex Definitions Team] Ab intestato is a Latin term meaning "by intestacy." The term refers to laws governing the succession of property after the previous owner of the property dies without a valid will. [Last reviewed in June of 2022 by the Wex Definitions Team] Abandon refers to the act of abandonment. A party can “abandon” in multiple fields of law and abandoning generally, though not always, involves voluntarily giving up a right. See abandonment for more information. [Last reviewed in June of 2022 by the Wex Definitions Team] Abandonment is a term that generally refers to a voluntary parting or the discarding of an object with no intent to return or reclaim the item. However, it varies in application across different areas of the law. To abate means to eliminate or to nullify. This verb usually arises in the context of abatement. [Last reviewed in October of 2024 by the Wex Definitions Team] Abatement is the act of reducing or nullifying something. Multiple subjects throughout law are subject to abatement and the term appears in many locations.
