---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/report-basics/how-and-when-collections-are-removed-from-a-credit-report/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:49.817397+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:12 GMT
---
from your credit reports and do not affect your credit scores. A rule change by the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) would have removed all medical bills from credit reports in March 2025, but implementation has been delayed. Versions 3.0 and 4.0 of the VantageScore credit scoring system ignore any medical debt included in your credit reports. Tip: "Medical collections" refers to unpaid bills sent to collections by a medical facility or health care provider. If you pay a medical bill with a credit card and later default on the credit card account, related collections will not be excluded from your credit reports. - All other collections: Collections that don't fall into the exception categories above will tend to hurt your credit scores while they remain on your credit reports. Their impact on your scores will diminish over time. - Learn more: Can Paying Off Collections Raise Your Credit Score? How to Dispute a Collection on Your Credit Report You have the right to dispute any inaccurate information that appears on your credit reports, and that includes collection accounts on debts that may have been misattributed to you or that result from fraud. If you see a collection account on your credit report and don't recognize the debt associated with it, you have the right to do the following. Contact the debt collector. If you believe that the collection account was reported in error, start by contacting the collector to let them know your concerns. - Request written verification of the debt. If you send a written debt verification request to the collector within 30 days of receiving the initial debt validation letter, the collector must verify the debt with your original creditor and pause collection attempts until they get a response. This could give you time to gather proof that the debt is not yours. - As appropriate, alert law enforcement. If the collection is legitimate (perhaps it's for a service you used that was billed using a name you didn't recognize), it cannot be removed from your credit report. But if you believe the unpaid debt was fraudulently obtained in your name, notify the collection agent, the original creditor and appropriate law enforcement. The Federal Trade Commission's IdentyTheft.gov website is a good place to begin. - Contact the credit reporting bureaus. You have the right to dispute inaccurate collection accounts on your credit reports. You will need to file disputes with each credit bureau separately. - Learn more: How to Dispute Credit Report Information How to Prevent Collection Accounts Here are some tips on how to avoid the headaches and hits to your credit score that collection accounts can bring. Pay your bills on time. The best way to prevent collection accounts from appearing on your credit reports is to avoid delinquency and default in the first place. Make sure you're paying all your bills on time, every time. - Be proactive if you're facing hardship. If you're having difficulty paying your bills, reach out to your creditors as soon as possible to see if relief is available. Lenders may offer forbearance programs that let you pause or reduce payments temporarily, and utility companies may have programs you can apply for to assist with your bills. In any case, working in good faith with companies you owe money lowers the odds they'll send your account to collections. - Check your credit reports regularly. An account you don't recognize could indicate identity theft or other fraudulent activity conducted in your name. Review your credit reports regularly to help you spot and report an unauthorized account as soon as it shows up on your credit report. That, in turn, could help lenders shut down the bogus account before it defaults and gets sent to collection. You can review your credit report for free with Experian. - The Bottom Line
