---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/enforcement/premerger-notification-program
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:53:38.459655+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 09 Feb 2026 07:53:35 GMT
---
The Hart-Scott-Rodino Act established the federal premerger notification program, which provides the FTC and the Department of Justice with information about large mergers and acquisitions before they occur. The parties to certain proposed transactions must submit premerger notification to the FTC and DOJ. Premerger notification involves completing an HSR Form, also called a “Notification and Report Form for Certain Mergers and Acquisitions,” with information about each company’s business. The parties may not close their deal until the waiting period outlined in the HSR Act has passed, or the government has granted early termination of the waiting period. The FTC administers the premerger notification program. For questions about the HSR Act and Rules, email HSRHelp@ftc.gov. For general information and the status of a filing, email premerger@ftc.gov. To submit an HSR premerger notification filing via Kiteworks, fill out the online form. Please be advised: Pursuant to Section 857 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024, some filers may be required to submit a copy of their HSR premerger notification filing to the Department of War (DoW). See our page about DoW filings for more information. Special Highlights Please be advised: Pursuant to Section 857 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024, some filers may be required to submit a copy of their HSR premerger notification filing to the Department of War (DoW). See our page about DoW filings for more information. - Please see the web page with Guidance for Electronic Submission of Filings for new information on identifying Updated and Refiled submissions in Kiteworks and naming the files in these submissions. (12/09/25) - A new Tip Sheet for Avoiding Common Pitfalls with the HSR Form is available on the HSR Forms, Instructions, and Guidance page. (09/26/25) - The Commission, together with the Antitrust Division, has issued the FY2024 HSR Annual Report. See the details in the Commission’s press release. (09/17/25) - The PNO is updating the way it posts and responds to requests for informal interpretations of the HSR rules. Beginning with the April 2025 informal interpretations, we will no longer be posting PDFs of the request and our response; this approach is a remnant of receiving requests by letter and since requests now come exclusively through email, PDFs are no longer needed. In addition, all responses to requests will now come from the HSRHelp@ftc.gov mailbox. For many years, PNO staff has collaborated on the response to each request; responding through HSRHelp@ftc.gov will better reflect the reality that the response represents the position of the entire PNO. As a reminder, however, these responses do not represent the views of the Commission. (06/10/25) - IMPORTANT NOTICE: To facilitate the processing of filings, the PNO is changing the format for identifying a filing in the Kiteworks Message field. Going forward, please use the following format: “Acquiring Person-Acquired Person – A/B – Date – ATTORNEY” with A or B indicating that the filing is for the Acquiring or the Acquired Person, respectively. Example: “SmithCo-Jefferson Inc. - A - 04-19-25 - JONES” would identify the filing on behalf of SmithCo, submitted by attorney Jones on 4/19/2025, in connection with a transaction in which SmithCo is the Acquiring Person and Jefferson Inc. is the Acquired Person. “SmithCo-Jefferson Inc. - B - 04-19-25 - WASHINGTON” would identify the filing on behalf of Jefferson Inc., submitted by attorney Washington on 4/19/2025, in connection with same transaction. (06/04/25) - A new Tip Sheet for NAICS Codes Reporting is available on the HSR Forms, Instructions, and Guidance page. (05/15/25) - The PNO has updated the Withdraw/Refile Procedure Tip Sheet to provide guidance for the current version of the HSR Form. (05/12/25) - The PNO has updated the corrective filings page to provide guidance for post-consummation filings using the updated HSR Form. (03/24/25). - We have updated the HSR Form Changes Q&A page to address
