---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/data-breach-five-things-to-do-after-your-information-has-been-stolen/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:03.394902+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:22 GMT
---
text message or email before each login, to prove you're you. It adds a small step to the sign-in process, but it makes it much harder for password thieves to gain access. - 3. Monitor Your Financial Accounts and Credit Reports Keep tabs on your bank and financial accounts and set up any available alerts to notify you of activity on the account. Staying aware of unusual or unexpected activity on your account lets you detect potential scams early and allows you to report or investigate them promptly. Checking your credit report also can help you identify any unusual activity related to credit fraud and identity theft, such as the creation of loan or credit card accounts you don't recognize and the addition of unfamiliar addresses to your personal information. You can check your credit report for free through Experian, and check your reports from all three credit bureaus for free at AnnualCreditReport.com. Free credit monitoring from Experian automates the process of checking your Experian report by sending you emails or text messages anytime there's new activity on your Experian credit report. 4. Initiate a Fraud Alert You have the right to initiate a fraud alert with all three credit bureaus. Active fraud alerts notify lenders processing credit applications in your name that you may be a victim of fraud or identity theft and instructs them to take additional steps to verify your identity before moving ahead with the application. When you add a fraud alert to your Experian credit report (or to your report at either of the other two national credit bureaus, TransUnion or Equifax), the alert is automatically applied to your credit reports at all three bureaus. Fraud alerts remain on your credit report for one year, but you can renew them. You can also request an extended fraud alert that lasts seven years. 5. Freeze or Lock Your Credit File Though potentially more inconvenient than a fraud alert, you might consider applying a free security freeze, which limits access to your credit report at a specific credit bureau. You have the right to freeze your Experian credit report, and you can separately freeze your credit reports at Equifax and TransUnion. Freezing your credit at all three bureaus helps protect your credit file from scammers and other criminals who may apply for credit in your name. However, it will also prevent creditors from accessing your credit for legitimate credit applications. If you want to allow a lender to view your credit reports (as when applying for a credit card or loan), you must first unfreeze your credit reports. Locking your credit file is another way to protect yourself from fraudulent credit applications being submitted in your name. You can lock and unlock your Experian credit file with CreditLock. 6. Look Out for Signs of Scams Criminals can use data exposed in breaches to commit targeted acts of phishing by convincing you their communications are from a legitimate source (such as your bank or a government official). Their goal may be to con you into handing over more sensitive information, or to trick you into providing access to your financial accounts. Being aware of these common signs of phishing attempts can help you stay defensive: Messages that urge you to act immediately using implied or explicit threats, such as "act now to avoid losing access to your account" or "this is your final chance to extend your home warranty" - Unusual sender email addresses - Attachments from companies or organizations that don't typically include them - Requests for information the sender should already have (for example, your bank requesting you confirm your account number) - The Bottom Line Exposure of your personal information in a data breach is a downside to the convenience of digital transactions and e-commerce. It's wise to be prepared in case it happens to
