---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/articles/insurance/09/bundle-insurance.asp
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:08:16.811022+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
home, and life insurance, it wouldn't be unusual for many families to spend between $3,000 and $5,000 or more each year. Of course, these rates depend on where you live, the value of your home and car(s), driving habits, personal health, and so forth. Consider the Pros and Cons of Insurance Bundling For just one line of insurance, most large companies aren't extremely price-competitive. After all, those thousands of people on staff can really add up. By combining your policies under one roof, the companies benefit from economies of scale and can justify more discounts. As for life insurance, people who have a life insurance policy are much less likely to switch insurance carriers because of the difficulty (or even impossibility) of changing policies. This difficulty is due to medical issues, age, and the possible need for further medical exams, among other factors, so people usually keep their life insurance policies in place. For this reason, many large insurance companies emphasize to their sales teams that life insurance sales are a critical product. Companies also give discounts to retain customers because it is expensive for companies to continually process (also known as underwriting) a revolving door of new customers. Due to the added expense associated with customer turnover, insurance companies prefer to have customers who carry multiple lines of insurance and keep these policies in place for years. The Bottom Line Combining all of your policies with one insurance company can save you money compared to having a variety of carriers. It's also important to remember when one company is handling all of your insurance policies, that's less time you must spend sorting through and paying each policy. But keep in mind that you'll lose the advantage of non-competitive pricing for individual policies. Read more Personal Finance Insurance Partner Links
