---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/credit/credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:57.817188+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 21:35:42 GMT
---
report with recent credit activity. Why donât you have a credit score? A FICOÂ® Score will develop after you haveÂ at least one account openÂ and recorded on your credit file for 6 months. A VantageScoreÂ® credit score could generate a score more quickly, as long as your credit report shows at least one account. If there are credit accounts on a credit report that havenât been active in the last 6 months, it may also take several months of activity to calculate credit scores. Itâs common for your credit score to beÂ different across the three bureaus. This can happen for many reasons. One reason is that while many companies often report to all three credit bureaus, some may only provide information to one or two, causing differences in the credit information between the bureaus. Another reason your scores can be different is because the creditor will likely pull one of your credit reports and not all three when you apply for new credit, causing a difference in the number of hard inquiries made on your credit. What credit score do you need to buy a house? TheÂ credit score you need to buy a houseÂ depends on the type of mortgage loan and who the lender is. There are different types of mortgages and each has its own minimum credit score requirement. Conventional loans typically require a minimum score of 620, with some requiring 600 or higher. Jumbo loans require scores of 700 or higher because of greater risks involved with larger loan amounts. FHA and USDA loans have lower score minimums of 500 or 580, respectively. When applying for a mortgage, itâs especially important to work on your credit well ahead of buying a home. The better your credit score, the better the rates and terms will be for you, which mean you could save a good amount of your hard-earned money. What credit score do you need to buy a car? There are no industry standards that dictate what credit score a lender should use orÂ what minimum score is needed to buy a car. The most important thing to focus on is to plan for your purchase and make sure your credit score is where youâd like it to be. In 2020, consumers with bad credit paid anÂ average interest rate of 13.97%. That would mean a $30,000 loan with a 60-month term would cost around $11,700 in total interest. On the other hand, consumers with excellent credit pay an average of 3.24%. For the same $30,000 loan and 60-month term, consumers would pay around $2,500 in total interest. Thatâs a difference of $9,200. To see how much total interest you could pay, tryÂ calculating your car payment. Learn more about credit How to Improve Your Credit Score 8 min â¢ Jul 24, 2025 Improve CreditHow to "Fix" a Bad Credit Score 8 min â¢ Jul 26, 2024 Improve CreditHow to Raise Your Credit Score by 200 Points 5 min â¢ Jul 23, 2024 Improve Credit
