---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/protection/creditlock/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:55.243403+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 21:35:43 GMT
---
good idea: Youâre the victim of identity theft. If youâve been targeted by an identity thief, locking your credit can help you put up a barrier to unauthorized credit activity. For instance, if youâre the victim of a phishing attempt, locking your credit can help you limit the scope of the damage. - Youâve been impacted in a data breach. Learning that your sensitive data, such as your Social Security number, has been compromised in a breach can add uncertainty to your financial life. Locking your credit is one way to take control of your identity. - You donât intend to apply for credit in the near future. Even if you donât have reason to believe youâre being targeted by fraudsters, if you donât plan to take out new credit anytime soon, locking your file is a savvy way upgrade your security practices. - Credit locks and credit freezes (which are also called security freezes) are measures you can take to up your defenses against identity theft and fraud. Beyond the fact that they can help you protect against unauthorized credit applications, hereâs a rundown onÂ how credit freezes and credit locks compare: Purpose: Both aÂ credit freezeÂ and a credit lock restrict access to your credit reports, preventing new applications for credit in your name. - Cost: You have the right under federal law to freeze your credit for free at any of the three major credit bureaus (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax). On the other hand, the cost to lock your credit varies and is a paid feature offered individually by the bureaus. - Scope: Specific to the credit bureau where itâs applied. You must freeze/unfreeze your credit separately at each bureau. Likewise, youâll need to turn on and off a credit lock through each of the bureaus you apply it through. - Duration: A credit freeze is indefinite and remains and in place until you lift it. Likewise, your credit file remains locked until you unlock it (or cancel your premium membership). - Locking your credit file restricts access, but some people may still be able to view your report, including: Youâyou can check your credit report for freeÂ whenever you want through your Experian account - Potential employers, if you consent to a credit check during the hiring process - Insurance companies - Your current creditors - Collection agencies acting on behalf of lenders you owe money to - Companies offering preapproved credit offers (but you can alwaysÂ opt out) - Locking your credit may prevent identity thieves from using your information to open new accounts, because it blocks unwanted inquiries that result in extensions of credit so that potential lenders are unable to process applications in your name. Also, Experian CreditLock notifies you if someone tries to access your credit file while it is locked, so youâll be immediately alerted that your information may be compromised by a criminal attempting to use your data to commit credit fraud. Locking your credit is a strong preventive move for those concerned identity theft and fraud. You should plan to use it alongside other security measures, including developing smart anti-fraud habits,Â safeguarding your personal informationÂ and taking advantage ofÂ dark web surveillance. Here are some ways you can protect against identity theft and secure your credit: Donât fall for phishing scams. Criminals use social engineering techniques to trick you into providing them with sensitive information, such as your credit card information or your Social Security number. To resist their attempts, learn aboutÂ common scamsÂ andÂ how to avoid getting phished. - Set strong passwords. Create unique,Â strong passwordsÂ for each of your accounts. A password manager can help you keep track of your passwords. Also, consider signing up forÂ multifactor authentication (MFA)Â to add an extra layer of security against hackers. - Monitor your accounts. Regularly check your financial
