---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/life-stages/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:09.677628+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Financial Advice for Recent Graduates Graduation is the perfect time to think about building a strong financial foundation. Learn personal finance information that helps recent grads create a budget and build credit. Each stage of life brings different financial needs and goals. No matter where you are in life or where you're heading, you’ll want to stay on top of information to discover the best loans, mortgages, interest rates, and strategies to plan for retirement. Graduation is the perfect time to think about building a strong financial foundation. Learn personal finance information that helps recent grads create a budget and build credit. Learn some of the most important facts about reverse mortgages: how they work, how much they cost, how to apply and more. If you’re a natural disaster survivor, you’ll need to think about your finances, important documents, and steps to take to better protect against identity theft. Here are some things to do or consider as you begin to rebuild. Find out which types of retirement accounts may be vulnerable to creditors in the event of financial hardship. Find out how to estimate how much money you should have saved by your 40s and 50s. Plus, learn strategies to build up your savings if you feel you’re behind. Life insurance can provide critical financial support following the death of a loved one. Learn how life insurance works, how to get it and more. Try these fifty money-related questions to kickstart important financial conversations with your partner. Life events can force us to retire earlier than planned. If you've been or are worried you might be pushed into early retirement, here are some steps to take. If you’re looking at changing jobs or even a career, reskilling for a new industry might help you gain a competitive edge in the job market. Re-entering the workforce after a career gap can be particularly hard on working women. If you’ve left the workforce, here’s how you can restart your career.
