---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/secured-card-vs-prepaid-card/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:03.872233+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:02 GMT
---
What창s the Difference Between Secured and Prepaid Cards? Quick Answer A secured credit card is best for those who need to build credit. Much like a regular credit card, a secured card helps you build credit by making on-time payments each month. A prepaid card is best for those who simply want a convenient way to pay without cash. Since prepaid cards aren창t a form of borrowing, you won창t see an impact on your credit score. If you have a limited credit history or a low credit score, getting approved for a credit card can be challenging. As a result, you might be considering a secured credit card or a prepaid card as a way to pay. Both cards are a good option for making secure, convenient payments, and both require you to deposit funds to start using the card. But their similarities just about end there. In a nutshell, a secured credit card is best if you want to build your credit history, whereas a prepaid card is primarily a way to prepay for purchases창and has no positive or negative impact on your credit score. Here's a rundown of both types of cards and how to decide which is best for you. Start building your credit What Is a Secured Credit Card? A secured credit card is a type of credit card that requires the borrower to pay the lender a refundable security deposit. The card's credit limit is then typically equal to that security deposit. As is the case with any credit card, you'll need to apply for a secured credit card. But unlike most unsecured credit cards, secured cards are designed specifically to be accessible to those with a limited borrowing history or poor credit. You can think of a secured credit card as similar to a loan that requires collateral, where the amount you can borrow is backed by a security deposit. Their biggest advantage is that secured credit cards allow you to build your credit history over time (more on this below). Depending on the card, it may also offer credit card benefits such as zero liability protection against fraudulent charges. What Is a Prepaid Card? A prepaid card is a type of debit card that's not attached to a bank account. You don't need a bank account to get a prepaid card, and using one is as simple as loading money onto the card and then making purchases or withdrawals up to the amount of your deposit on the card. Like a secured card, a prepaid card requires you to make a deposit before you can use it for payment. However, unlike a secured credit card, you won't need to undergo a credit check for a prepaid card. That means you won't have to worry about being turned down on the basis of a limited or negative credit history. But by the same token, a prepaid card can't help you build credit. What's the Difference Between Secured Credit Cards and Prepaid Cards? To understand the key differences between secured credit cards and prepaid cards, first take note of their similarities: Both require you to deposit money before you can use the card to make payments, and both allow you to make purchases online and at in-person stores. But beyond that, secured credit cards and prepaid cards differ in these major ways. Building Credit Secured credit cards allow you to start building up your credit history. As long as you keep using the card and making at least the minimum payment each month, you won't forfeit your deposit, and you'll build up your payment history over time. Eventually, this strategy can help you qualify for a credit card without a security deposit. In contrast, prepaid cards don't impact your credit. Since you can only spend money you've got on the card and you aren't borrowing
