---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/student-loans-4689727
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:08:15.287946+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
FAFSA is available starting Oct. 1 of the year prior to enrollment, and the federal due date is June 30 of the academic year (some colleges and/or states have their own deadlines). A FAFSA award letter is provided by the colleges that are listed on your FAFSA form and details the cost of attendance for an academic year and your eligibility for any grants, loans, etc. Most colleges send out award letters alongside their admission offer letters. Although colleges have access to your FAFSA information a day after it’s processed, the timeframes for reviewing your FAFSA information may vary from one university to another. A deferment period is an amount of time where a borrower isn't required to repay their loan's principal or interest. Deferment periods vary based on the type of loan; student loans can only be deferred for up to three years. Depending on the type of student loan, you may still have to pay down the interest that accrues during the deferment period. A PLUS loan is offered to graduate & professional students and the parents of dependent undergraduates. While eligibility isn’t based on financial need, a credit check is required, and borrowers with an adverse credit history won’t be eligible without meeting other criteria. The max amount available to you will be based on your chosen college's cost of attendance minus any financial aid you’ve received. A direct consolidation loan allows you to combine all of your eligible federal student loans into just one loan with a sole loan servicer. Your consolidated loan will have a fixed interest rate based on the average of the original loans’ interest rates. Consolidating multiple loans can be accomplished at no cost to you and allows you to reduce your number of monthly payments. A student loan interest deduction allows you to deduct up to $2,500 of the interest paid on qualified student loans during the tax year. The deduction is only available if you meet certain eligibility criteria, and it’s gradually reduced as your modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) reaches its annual limit. This interest deduction is claimed as an adjustment to income, so it don't need to itemized on your income tax returns. Federal Student Aid. "Federal Student Loans for College or Career School Are an Investment in Your Future." U.S. Department of Education Federal Student Aid. "The U.S. Department of Education Offers Low-Interest Loans to Eligible Students to Help Cover the Cost of College or Career School." Finaid. "Prepayment." Federal Student Aid. "Student Loan Delinquency and Default." Equifax. "Can Creditors Go After My Retirement Accounts?" U.S. Government Accountability Office. "Social Security Offsets," Pages 6–7. Federal Student Aid. "When It Comes to Paying for College, Career School, or Graduate School, Federal Student Loans Can Offer Several Advantages Over Private Student Loans." Federal Student Aid. "You Know You Have to Fill Out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA®) Form, but Maybe You’re Not Sure What to Do." Federal Student Aid. "FAFSA® Deadlines." Federal Student Aid. "I Filled Out My FAFSA Form. When Can I Expect to Receive Information About My Financial Aid?" Federal Student Aid. "Student Loan Deferment Allows You to Temporarily Stop Making Payments." Federal Student Aid. "Direct PLUS Loans Are Federal Loans That Graduate or Professional Students and Parents of Dependent Undergraduate Students Can Use to Help Pay for College or Career School." Federal Student Aid. "Direct Consolidation Loan Application." Internal Revenue Service. "Topic No. 456 Student Loan Interest Deduction."
