---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
in connection with such request under subsection (c) shall be subject to judicial review under section 3511 of title 18. (2) Notice A request under subsection (a) shall include notice of the availability of judicial review described in paragraph (1). (e) Rule of construction. Nothing in section 626 shall be construed to limit the authority of the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation under this section. (f) Safe harbor. Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, any consumer reporting agency or agent or employee thereof making disclosure of consumer reports or other information pursuant to this section in good- faith reliance upon a certification of a government agency pursuant to the provisions of this section shall not be liable to any person for such disclosure under this subchapter, the constitution of any State, or any law or regulation of any State or any political subdivision of any State. (g) Reports to Congress (1) On a semi-annual basis, the Attorney General shall fully inform the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Financial Services, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate concerning all requests made pursuant to subsection (a). (2) In the case of the semiannual reports required to be submitted under paragraph (1) to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the submittal dates for such reports shall be as provided in section 3106 of title 50. § 628. Disposal of records [15 U.S.C. § 1681w] See also 16 CFR Part 682, 69 Fed. Reg. 68690 (11/24/04) (a) Regulations (1) In general. The Federal Trade Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal banking agencies, and the National Credit Union Administration, with respect to the entities that are subject to their respective enforcement authority under section 621, and in coordination as described in paragraph (2), shall issue 112§ 629 - 15 U.S.C. §1681x final regulations requiring any person that maintains or otherwise possesses consumer information, or any compilation of consumer information, derived from consumer reports for a business purpose to properly dispose of any such information or compilation. (2) Coordination. Each agency required to prescribe regulations under paragraph (1) shall – (A) consult and coordinate with each other such agency so that, to the extent possible, the regulations prescribed by each such agency are consistent and comparable with the regulations by each such other agency; and (B) ensure that such regulations are consistent with the requirements and regulations issued pursuant to Public Law 106-102 and other provisions of Federal law. (3) Exemption authority. In issuing regulations under this section, the agencies identified in paragraph (1) may exempt any person or class of persons from application of those regulations, as such agency deems appropriate to carry out the purpose of this section. (b) Rule of construction. Nothing in this section shall be construed – (1) to require a person to maintain or destroy any record pertaining to a consumer that is not imposed under other law; or (2) to alter or affect any requirement imposed under any other provision of law to maintain or destroy such a record. § 629. Corporate and technological circumvention prohibited [15 U.S.C. § 1681x] The Bureau shall prescribe regulations, to become effective not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this section, to prevent a consumer reporting agency from circumventing or evading treatment as a consumer reporting agency described in section 603(p) for purposes of this title, including – (1) by means of a corporate reorganization or restructuring, including a merger, acquisition, dissolution, divestiture, or asset sale of a consumer reporting agency; or (2) by maintaining
