---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/credit/credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:57.817188+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 21:35:42 GMT
---
update from a creditor to your credit report, there can be a potential change to your credit scores. How often should you check your credit score? You can check it any time, but itâs especially important before you make a major purchase or apply for a loan or credit card. How can you establish credit if you have no prior credit history? If youâre just starting out, Experian can help you establish and get access to credit with Experian Go. Your credit score is determinedÂ by a scoring model that analyzes your credit report and then assigns you a score. This score usually ranges from 300 to 850. FICOÂ® and VantageScoreÂ® are the two main credit scoring models, and they useÂ different factors when calculating your credit score. FICOÂ® Score factors 35%: your payment history, including positive history and late payments - 30%: total amount of debt you owe - 15%: length of your credit history - 10%: your credit mix or the types of credit you have - 10%: the amount of new credit you have - VantageScoreÂ® credit score factors Extremely influential: total credit usage, balance and available credit - Highly influential: credit mix and experience - Moderately influential: payment history - Less influential: age of credit history - Less influential: new accounts opened - Generally, a credit score of 670 or higher is considered aÂ good credit score. A score higher than 800 is considered exceptional. TheÂ average credit scoreÂ in 2020 in the United States was 710, with 67% of Americans having a good FICOÂ® Score or better. Understanding your own credit score is the first step in maintaining and even improving your credit score. Experian can help you keep up to date with the changes that occur and show you what has changed, along with tips to guide you on the path to better credit. Score rating | Score range | ---|---| Exceptional | 800-850 | Very good | 740-799 | Good | 670-739 | Fair | 580-669 | Poor | 300-579 | Why do you need a good credit score? Whether you are starting out with credit or retired, having a good credit score gives you access to more credit options and better control of your finances with better rates and terms. In the U.S.,Â many consumers use credit: 90% have a credit card - 62% have an auto loan - 44% have a mortgage - 22% have a personal loan - 14% have a student loan - 12% have a home equity line of credit (HELOC) - Credit is important at every stage in life, from getting your first apartment and buying your first car to refinancing your home and qualifying for a travel rewards card. Creditors will look at your entire financial profile, including your credit score, to determine your qualification and your rates or terms. There are several different ways you can start to increase your credit score. Each credit situation will differ by individual, which is why we recommend using our FICOÂ® Score Planner. But in general you can begin toÂ improve your credit scoreÂ by: Paying all of your bills on time: As payment history is the biggest factor in your FICOÂ® Score, this will help move the needle the most. If youâve been on time with your payments up until now, great. If not, start making sure that youâre paying all your bills on timeâlate or missed payments can stay on your credit report forÂ 7 years. Over time, a late payment will decrease in impact, but several missed payments in a row or late payments on multiple accounts can hurt your credit. Catching up on past-due accounts: Even if you missed a payment before, getting all your accounts up to date can help improve your credit score. This will also prevent more late payments from being added
