---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/score-basics/credit-utilization-rate/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:28.553232+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:22 GMT
---
What Is a Credit Utilization Rate? Quick Answer Your credit utilization rate is the percentage of available credit that youâre using on your credit cards and other lines of credit. Itâs based on the balances that appear in your credit report. In general, a lower utilization rate is best. Your credit utilization ratio, sometimes called your credit utilization rate, is the amount of revolving credit you're using divided by the total amount of revolving credit you have available. It's expressed as a percentage, and it can be an important factor in your credit scores. In general, lower utilization rates can improve your credit scores, which can in turn make it easier to secure additional credit with favorable terms. Learning what impacts your utilization rate and how to maintain a low utilization rate is an important part of managing your credit and finances. What Factors Into Your Credit Utilization Ratio? Credit utilization is also sometimes called revolving credit utilization because only your revolving credit accounts are included in the calculations. The specifics depend on the type of credit score, but types of revolving credit accounts include: Credit cards - Credit cards you're named as an authorized user on - Personal lines of credit - Home equity lines of credit (HELOC) - Closed revolving accounts with outstanding balances - The credit utilization calculation depends on the balances and credit limits from your credit report, which may be different from your current credit limits and balances. How to Calculate Your Credit Utilization It's important to understand how to calculate utilization rates on your own. It's also fairly straightforward. Find your revolving account balances and credit limits from your credit report. When considering your credit utilization, credit scoring models use the account balances and credit limits listed in your credit reports. You should do the same. - Add up your revolving accounts' balances and credit limits. You'll use these two sums to find your overall utilization rate. - Divide the total balance by the total credit limit and then multiply by 100 to get a percentage. The calculation only involves simple addition, division and multiplicationâthat's all the math involved. - Example: Say you have two credit cards, and each one has a $5,000 credit limit. One card has a $5,000 balance and the other card has a $0 balance. Since your total available credit is $10,000 and your total balance is $5,000, your overall utilization rate is 50%. Individual Account vs. Total Credit Utilization Continuing with the above example, you can use the same calculation (balance divided by credit limit times 100) to find the per-card utilization. In the example above, one card has 0% utilization, and the other card has 100% utilization. Credit scoring models may consider the highest utilization rate on a revolving account in addition to your overall utilization rate. Having a card with a very high utilization rate, such as 100%, can hurt your credit score even if your overall utilization is relatively low. What Is a Good Credit Utilization Rate? A good utilization rate is a low utilization rate, ideally in the single digits. The average overall credit utilization in the U.S. was 29% in the third quarter (Q3) of 2024, according to Experian data. However, when you look at the average overall credit utilization broken down by credit score group, it's clear that lower is better. Below are average credit utilization ratios by FICOÂ® ScoreÎ. Score Range | Average Credit Card Utilization Ratio | ---|---| Poor (300 - 579) | 80.7% | ---|---| Fair (580 - 669) | 61.4% | ---|---| Good (670 - 739) | 38.6% | ---|---| Very good (740 - 799) | 15.2% | ---|---| Exceptional (800 - 850) | 7.1% | ---|---| Source: Experian data from Q3 2024 While there's no specific point when your utilization rate goes from good to bad, 30% is
