---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-apply-for-a-credit-card-with-bad-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:56.475668+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:39 GMT
---
don't have an annual fee. Subprime Cards Subprime cards are unsecured cards for people who have bad ("subprime") credit. These could be a good option if you don't want to tie up your money with a security deposit. Review the card's terms and fees carefully before applying, however. Some subprime cards have an application fee, along with annual or monthly fees. They may also be difficult to manage if the card issuer doesn't offer an intuitive online interface or good customer service. You'll also likely receive a low credit limit, although that may be increased over time if you use your card responsibly. Cards with Alternative Underwriting Another option may be to look for card issuers that use alternative underwriting tools and don't rely as heavily on your credit scores. These are often newer companies that only offer a couple of credit cards. How to Improve Your Credit Before Applying for a Credit Card Improving your credit score can increase your chances of getting approved for a new credit card. But your next steps can depend on why you have bad credit. If you're behind on bills, you may want to focus on bringing past-due accounts current and settling or paying off collection accounts. You could even look into working with a credit counselor to get an outside perspective on your finances. Or, perhaps you have bad credit due to previous late payments, collection accounts or filing bankruptcy. Patience can be important here, as these negative items will stay on your credit report for seven years or possibly longer in the case of bankruptcy. The good news: The impact of negative items decreases over time. In either case, you can commit to improving your credit by making on-time debt payments that add positive information to your credit history and reducing balances on revolving accounts, such as credit cards. Paying those down could help your scores by lowering your credit utilization rate. Payment history and credit utilization are the most important factors in calculating your credit scores, so these two steps could go a long way toward helping you rebuild your credit. If you don't have any open loans, a credit-builder loan is one option to help you build credit. These loans are often offered by credit unions and smaller community banks. Monitor Your Credit and Get Matched With Credit Cards Opening a credit card lets you add new information to your credit reports, which can help you build creditâas long as you manage your new card responsibly. If you're focused on improving your credit scores, you could use the card for one small purchase each month and then pay the bill in full. Monitoring your credit scores can help you understand where you currently stand, and when you might have a chance of getting approved for better credit cards. Experian lets you check and monitor one of your FICOÂ® Scores for free. Once you sign into your account, you can also use Experian CreditMatchTM to compare credit cards and get matched with cards from our partners. Donât apply blindly Apply for credit cards confidently with personalized offers based on your credit profile. Get started with your FICOÂ® Score for free. See your offersAbout the author Louis DeNicola is freelance personal finance and credit writer who works with Fortune 500 financial services firms, FinTech startups, and non-profits to teach people about money and credit. His clients include BlueVine, Discover, LendingTree, Money Management International, U.S News and Wirecutter. Read more from Louis
