---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-save-money/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:17.371126+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:50 GMT
---
electricity bills. For example, take shorter showers, install water-saving plumbing fixtures or cut back on watering your lawn. Turn off lights and electronics when not in use. In summer, cool your home with ceiling fans and room-darkening curtains and set your thermostat at 78 degrees to minimize air conditioning use. In cold weather, seal cracks to eliminate drafts; set your thermostat at 68 degrees and dress warmly. 12. Try a Savings Challenge Make a game of saving money by taking a savings challenge. Here are a few to try: 52-week challenge: Put $1 in savings the first week, $2 the second week, $3 the third week and so on. - Round-up challenge: Round up every purchase to the nearest dollar and put the difference in savings. For instance, if you buy something for $25.15, round up to $26 and put 85 cents in savings. Some banks or credit unions let you automatically round up purchases made with your debit card and deposit the savings into your savings account. - No-spend challenge: Eliminate all nonessential spending for a certain timeâsay, one weekend or one month. You can customize your challenge to cut back on "problem spending" areas, such as eating out or buying clothes. - 13. Pay Down Debt With the average credit card annual percentage rate (APR) at 22.76% as of May 2024, according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC), carrying a balance on your credit card can cost you hundreds of dollars of interest per month. Make a plan to pay down high-interest debt so you can put that money toward savings instead. Depending on your budget and needs, consider the debt avalanche or debt snowball strategies. Learn more: How to Get Out of Debt 14. Consolidate Debt Consolidating high-interest debt can help make your payments more manageable so you can pay off debt faster and save on interest. Look for a debt consolidation loan at a lower interest rate than your outstanding debt and use the loan proceeds to pay off your balances. As of May 2024, the average APR on a personal loan was 11.92%âsignificantly lower than the average credit card APR. You can also consolidate debt with a balance transfer credit card that offers an introductory 0% APR. Transfer your outstanding balances to the card and they won't accrue interest until the promotional 0% APR ends. This can give you time to pay off the balance without incurring additional interest. Learn more: How to Consolidate Debt Compare personal loan rates Find APRs from 4.99% to 35.99% and flexible terms of 12 to 120 months. Loan amounts range from $1,000 up to $250,000, with funding available the same day or up to 7 days. Offers from our partners View all of our Best Personal Loans for 2026 to see what youâre likely to qualify for, and the rates and terms you might get. 15. Reduce Restaurant Spending Eating at restaurants, buying lunch at work or frequently ordering takeout takes a big bite out of your budget. Instead, save money by cooking and eating at home. If you can't bear to stop dining out altogether, reserve restaurant meals for special occasions. You can also trim your restaurant bill by going for lunch or happy hour, drinking water instead of pricey beverages or ordering appetizers instead of a main course. 16. Learn to DIY Hiring experts to hem your pants, cut your kid's hair, change your car's oil or fix a leaky faucet gets expensive fast. Cut costs by finding a how-to video or product manual online and learning how to do it yourself. If you prefer hands-on instruction, check offerings from local home improvement stores, garden centers, fabric stores or city recreation departments. For example, many home improvement retailers hold free workshops on topics like painting walls or installing tile. 17. Cut Your Cable, Phone and Internet
