---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/score-basics/803-credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:47.853364+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:21 GMT
---
803 Credit Score: Is it Good or Bad? Your 803 FICOÂ® ScoreÎ falls in the range of scores, from 800 to 850, that is categorized as Exceptional. Your FICOÂ® Score is well above the average credit score, and you are likely to receive easy approvals when applying for new credit. 21% of all consumers have FICOÂ® Scores in the Exceptional range. Less than 1% of consumers with Exceptional FICOÂ® Scores are likely to become seriously delinquent in the future. How to improve your 803 Credit Score A FICOÂ® Score of 803 is well above the average credit score of 714. It's nearly as good as credit scores can get, but you still may be able to improve it a bit. More importantly, your score is on the low end of the Exceptional range and fairly close to the Very Good credit score range (740-799). A Very Good score is hardly cause for alarm, but staying in the Exceptional range can mean better chances of approval on the very best credit offers. Among consumers with FICOÂ® credit scores of 803, the average utilization rate is 7.7%. The best way to determine how to improve your credit score is to check your FICOÂ® Score. Along with your score, you'll receive a report that uses specific information in your credit report that indicates why your score isn't even higher. Because your score is extraordinarily good, none of those factors is likely to be a major influence, but you may be able to tweak them to get even closer to perfection. Why you should be pleased with an Exceptional FICOÂ® Score A credit score in the Exceptional range reflects a longstanding history of excellent credit management. Your record of on-time bill payment, and prudent handling of debt is essentially flawless. Late payments 30 days past due are rare among individuals with Exceptional credit scores. They appear on just 2.4% of the credit reports of people with FICOÂ® Scores of 803. People like you with Very Good credit scores are attractive customers to banks and credit card issuers, who typically offer borrowers like you better-than-average lending terms. These may include opportunities to refinance older loans at better rates than you were able to get in years past, and chances to sign up for credit cards with enticing rewards as well as relatively low interest rates. Monitor and manage your Exceptional credit score A FICOÂ® Score of 803 is an accomplishment built up over time. It takes discipline and consistency to build up an Exceptional credit score. Additional care and attention can help you keep hang on to it. Whether instinctively or on purpose, you're doing a remarkable job navigating the factors that determine credit scores: Utilization rate on revolving credit. Utilization, or usage rate, is a measure of how close you are to âmaxing outâ credit card accounts. You can calculate it for each of your credit card accounts by dividing the outstanding balance by the card's borrowing limit, and then multiplying by 100 to get a percentage. You can also figure your total utilization rate by dividing the sum of all your card balances by the sum of all their spending limits (including the limits on cards with no outstanding balances). Balance | Spending limit | Utilization rate (%) | ---|---|---| MasterCard | $1,200 | $4,000 | 30% | ---|---|---|---| VISA | $1,000 | $6,000 | 17% | ---|---|---|---| American Express | $3,000 | $10,000 | 30% | ---|---|---|---| Total | $5,200 | $20,000 | 26% | ---|---|---|---| If you keep your utilization rates at or below 30%â on all accounts in total and on each individual accountâmost experts agree you'll avoid lowering your credit scores. Letting utilization creep higher will depress your score, and approaching 100% can seriously drive down your credit score. Utilization rate is responsible for nearly one-third (30%) of your
