---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
credit. (3) Actions authorized by federal law, insurance activities and regulatory determinations . Section 603(d)(3) shall not be construed so as to treat information or any communication of information as a consumer report if the information or communication is disclosed – (A) in connection with the business of insurance or annuities, including the activities described in section 18B of the model Privacy of Consumer Financial and Health Information Regulation issued by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (as in effect on January 1, 2003); (B) for any purpose permitted without authorization under the Standards for Individually Identifiable Health Information promulgated by the Department of Health and Human Services pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability § 605 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681c 21 Act of 1996, or referred to under section 1179 of such Act, or described in section 502(e) of Public Law 106-102; or (C) as otherwise determined to be necessary and appropriate, by regulation or order, by the Bureau or the applicable State insurance authority (with respect to any person engaged in providing insurance or annuities). (4) Limitation on redisclosure of medical information . Any person that receives medical information pursuant to paragraph (1) or (3) shall not disclose such information to any other person, except as necessary to carry out the purpose for which the information was initially disclosed, or as otherwise permitted by statute, regulation, or order. (5) Regulations and Effective Date for Paragraph (2) (A)4 Regulations required . The Bureau may, after notice and opportunity for comment, prescribe regulations that permit transactions under paragraph (2) that are determined to be necessary and appropriate to protect legitimate operational, transactional, risk, consumer, and other needs (and which shall include permitting actions necessary for administrative verifica - tion purposes), consistent with the intent of paragraph (2) to restrict the use of medical information for inappropriate purposes. See also 12 CFR Parts 41/222/232/334/571/717, 70 Fed. Reg. 70664 (11/22/05) (6) Coordination with other laws . No provision of this subsection shall be construed as altering, affecting, or superseding the applicability of any other provision of Federal law relating to medical confidentiality. § 605. Requirements relating to information contained in consumer reports [15 U.S.C. § 1681c] (a) Information excluded from consumer reports. Except as authorized under subsection (b) of this section, no consumer reporting agency may make any consumer report containing any of the following items of information: (1) Cases under title 11 [United States Code] or under the Bankruptcy Act that, from the date of entry of the order for relief or the date of adjudication, as the case may be, antedate the report by more than 10 years. 4 As written in section 1088(a)(4)(B) of the CFPA in 2010. The previous version of section 604(b)(5), added in 2003 by the FACT Act, contained two subsections (A) and (B). The latter stated that the rules required to be prescribed by the Federal financial agencies (not including the Commission) be finalized by June 4, 2004. 22§ 605 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681c (2) Civil suits, civil judgments, and records of arrest that from date of entry, antedate the report by more than seven years or until the governing statute of limitations has expired, whichever is the longer period. (3) Paid tax liens which, from date of payment, antedate the report by more than seven years. (4) Accounts placed for collection or charged to profit and loss which antedate the report by more than seven years.5 (5) Any other adverse item of information, other than records of convic - tions of crimes which antedates the report by more than seven years.5 (6) The name, address, and telephone number of any medical information furnisher that has notified the agency of its status, unless – (A) such name, address, and telephone number are restricted or reported using codes that do not identify, or
