---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-does-a-personal-loan-impact-your-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:05.090144+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:34 GMT
---
35% of your FICOÂ® Score, the score used by 90% of top lenders. A single payment that's late by 30 days or more can do serious harm to your credit scores, but every timely payment you make on a personal loan (or any of your other debts) adds to your positive payment history and helps promote credit score improvement. Increased Credit Mix When lenders evaluate potential borrowers' creditworthiness, they like to see evidence of experience with multiple accounts and different kinds of debt, including a combination of revolving credit and installment loans. This experience is summed up in a credit scoring factor called credit mix, which accounts for about 10% of your FICOÂ® Score. If a new personal loan increases the number and variety of active credit accounts in your credit reportsâespecially if all you have right now are credit cardsâit could enhance your credit mix and lead to credit score improvement. How Personal Loans Can Hurt Your Credit Like any debt, improperly managing a personal loan can cause credit damage that can be difficult to recover from. Inquiry-Related Credit Score Drops As discussed above, a hard inquiry can cause your credit scores to drop slightly when you apply for new credit, and scores typically dip a few more points when you are issued a new loan. Note that the FICOÂ® Score and VantageScoreÂ® credit scoring systems accommodate rate shopping for installment loans by treating applications to multiple lenders within a short time periodâtypically 14 to 45 daysâas a single event. (By contrast, hard inquiries triggered by multiple credit card applications within a short timespan can have a cumulative negative effect on credit scores.) Another convenient way to shop for personal loan offers and rates is to use prequalification, a process that uses a soft inquiry, which does not affect credit scores, to estimate the interest rate and loan amount you can expect in a loan offer. A number of companies, including Experian, enable prequalification with multiple personal loan providers in a single step to simplify the comparison process. Increasing Overall Debt When you take out a personal loan, you add to your total debt load, and that can have a negative impact on your credit scores. If you're using some or all of the borrowed funds for debt consolidation, you may offset that by reducing balances on other loan or credit card accountsâan impact that could take a month or two to be reflected on your credit reports and credit scores, but which could eventually lead to net score improvement. If you're using the loan for other purposes, your scores could improve more slowly, as you pay down the personal loan balance and the balances on your other accounts. Managing Additional Payments When you take on a new personal loan, you also add a new bill to your monthly financial schedule. That could bring challenges to household budgeting or bookkeeping. Mishandling those challenges by making a late payment or missing one altogether could mean costly late fees and significant damage to your payment history and, as a result, your credit scores. Making every effort to avoid late payments, such as setting up autopay, can make it more likely your new loan will benefit your scores in the long run, rather than hurt them. What Credit Score Do You Need for a Personal Loan? Credit scores can play a significant role in determining your eligibility for a personal loan, and they also can influence the maximum amount a lender is willing to lend you and the interest and fees you'll be charged on the loan. The higher your credit score, the better the borrowing terms you'll likely get. Lenders can set minimum credit score requirements for their loans however they choose, but the FICOÂ® Score and VantageScore scoring models identify score ranges that denote different degrees of creditworthiness. FICOÂ® Score
