---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-an-emergency-fund/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:05.607835+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:18 GMT
---
Be in an Emergency Fund? Experts suggest saving three to six months' worth of basic living expenses in an emergency fund. To do that, tally up your monthly necessities, such as your rent or mortgage payment, groceries, utilities, minimum debt payments and insurance. Multiply that by the number of months' worth of expenses you want to save. That's your goal, and it's OK if it takes a while for your account to be fully funded. You may decide to save more than six months of expenses if you're the sole earner in your household, you have an irregular income or you work as a freelancer. Where Should I Keep My Emergency Fund? Keep your emergency fund in a dedicated bank account, separate from the checking account you use on a regular basis. That helps ensure it will stay intact and ready for use when the need arises. It's also key to ensure you're able to withdraw money quickly when necessary. Here are some options to consider. Interest-Bearing Bank Accounts For the most easily accessible emergency fund, choose a bank accountâand ideally, one that allows you to earn more interest than a traditional savings account pays. Try one of these two options: High-yield savings account: A high-yield savings account can help you earn more on your emergency savings than a traditional savings account. You can open one at a credit union, an online bank or a traditional bank. While the national average annual percentage yield (APY) for a savings account was 0.40% as of October 2025, some high-yield savings accounts earn 4% or more. - Money market account: A money market account also offers higher interest rates than standard savings accounts and is offered at most banks and credit unions. They differ from high-yield savings accounts in that they typically allow withdrawals using personal checks or debit cards and may require a higher initial deposit and ongoing minimum balance. - Short-Term Investments Some people choose to keep a portion of their emergency savings in low-risk investments, rather than bank accounts, in the hopes of earning a higher return. If you take this route, first ensure that you have a significant portion of emergency savings in a bank account that you can access immediately, without having to worry about maturity dates or withdrawal penalties. Then you can consider keeping some emergency savings in short-term investments like these: Treasury bills: Treasury bills, or T-bills, are short-term bonds with fixed interest rates and maturities of up to a year. You can buy T-bills directly from the federal government at TreasuryDirect.gov, and when you sell them after their maturity date, you could earn a modest return. But they're not as liquid as savings kept in a bank account, and their returns may not be as high as you could find with a certificate of deposit (CD). - Certificates of deposit (CDs): A CD is a type of deposit account that requires you to leave your money in the account for a certain period of time in exchange for a higher-than-average interest rate. There's almost no risk you'll lose money, but you must typically pay early withdrawal penalties to take out funds before the CD's maturity date. To make a CD work as a place to keep some emergency savings, go for a no-penalty CD or choose multiple CDs at various maturity dates, called a CD ladder, so you'll get access to the money at different periods if you need it. - How to Build an Emergency Fund The best way to build an emergency fund is to automatically direct a portion of each paycheck to your savings account. That can be a challenge if you're on a tight budget or your income fluctuates. But there are ways to grow your emergency savings over time, no matter how much you earn. Here are basic steps to
