---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-debt-relief-companies-8763179
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:00.590678+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
any legal actions brought against you by creditors. Although these attorneys won’t represent you in court, they’ll attempt to get creditors to settle any lawsuits and agree to debt settlement instead. Freedom Debt Relief covers a wide variety of debts, from the common (credit card bills) to the less common (payday loans). Its service includes a guarantee that, again, most companies don’t offer: If your total settlement cost ends up being more than the total amount originally enrolled in the program, FDR will refund you the difference. That can save you some money compared to other programs, especially if the process takes excessively long. FDR is available in 41 states, either directly or through legal partners. You can work with FDR if you’re a resident of any state except Colorado, Hawaii, North Dakota, Oregon, South Carolina, Vermont, Washington, Wisconsin, West Virginia, or Wyoming. Freedom Debt Relief is based in San Mateo, California. Read our full Freedom Debt Relief review. Fees and Costs Freedom Debt Relief’s program starts with a free consultation to go over your debt situation. If you decide to work with FDR, you’ll open up a savings account with a separate bank. FDR is one of very few debt relief companies to mention how much this account costs—in this case, there’s a $9.95 setup fee and an ongoing $9.95 monthly charge. This is unfortunate, given that many high-paying savings accounts are available for free, but it’s par for the course if you hire a debt settlement company. If Freedom Debt Relief is able to negotiate a debt settlement with your creditors, you’ll pay 15% to 25% of your enrolled debt. According to the company, customers typically end up settling for 40% to 50% of their enrolled debt before fees, or 28% after fees. Best for Low Fees, Best for Small Debts : Money Management International Investopedia's Rating 4.7 out of 5 stars Services: Debt settlement, debt management plansDebt settlement fee: 7.5% to 18% of enrolled debtMinimum debt required (settlement): $2,500Debt management plan fee: $0 to $59 Learn More (opens in a new tab) Pros & Cons Pros Low minimum fee for debt settlement Low minimum debt requirement Long-established business (since 1958) No fee for savings/escrow account Cons Debt management plan fees can be somewhat high Not available in all states Why We Chose It Any amount of debt could be too much, but many debt relief companies have minimum debt requirements—you might need $7,500 or as much as $10,000 in debt before they’ll work with you. But Money Management International (MMI) is much more accessible. It offers both debt settlement and credit counseling, and requires only $2,500 in debt to enroll in a settlement program, or no debt at all to enroll in credit counseling. On top of that, MMI’s debt settlement fees are the lowest of any company included in our research. You’ll pay just 7.5% to 18% of the enrolled debt—that’s about half as much as the next-lowest option. Given how expensive debt settlement can be, this could represent a huge savings. If you end up needing legal help during the settlement process, MMI offers optional legal support through its partner, Fortress Legal, for $30 per month. Along with debt settlement, MMI offers credit counseling and debt management plans (DMPs)—these are payment plans, rather than debt forgiveness, which can help you pay what you owe without major damage to your credit. Fees for debt management plans are on a sliding scale, based on income; enrollment fees range from $0 to $75, and monthly fees range from $0 to $59. MMI also provides counseling for housing issues, bankruptcy, disaster recovery, and more. Money Management International offers superb customer service availability, with phone support open 24/7. Past customers agree that MMI provides a high-quality service, summing up to a rating of 4.7 stars in Investopedia’s combined customer satisfaction
