---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/supct/cert/23-719
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:10:47.159006+00:00
last_updated: Wed, 14 Jan 2026 15:53:40 GMT
---
meaning of Section Three as reflected in contemporaneous congressional debates and executive and judicial opinions.Anderson further contends that the President is an “officer of the United States” because any federal officeholder is an “officer of the United States” and that the Appointments, Commissions, and Impeachment Clauses were never meant to define “officer.” Anderson also argues that Section Three provides a parallel structure between barred individuals and the offices they cannot occupy which implies that, if the Presidency is an office, then the President is an officer. Finally, Anderson argues that the difference between the Congressional and Presidential oaths of office is of no consequence because to “defend” the Constitution is to “support” it as well. “ENGAGE IN INSURRECTION” AND THE FIRST AMENDMENT Trump argues that he did not “engage” in insurrection on January 6th, 2021. Trump emphasizes that he never explicitly told his supporters to enter the Capitol Building and, in fact, only encouragedpeaceful[] and patriotic[]” protest during his Ellipse speech. Trump contends that “engagement” requires active participation, rather than a failure to act to prevent the crowd’s unlawful actions. Trump further asserts that the January 6th Capitol attack was not caused or furthered by him, his words, or his actions. Additionally, Trump maintains that his statements were protected political speech under the First Amendment and do not satisfy the “incitement” requirement the Supreme Court set out in Brandenburg v. Ohio, which states that statements are not unconstitutional incitement unless they are both directed and likely to produce imminent lawless action. Trump urges that, even if his statements contributed to the attack, he lacked the intent necessary to make the statements constitutionally unprotected because his words were not “directed” or “likely” to incite the attack. The Colorado Republican State Central Committee (“CRSCC”) adds that the First Amendment protects its right to select a nominee through the electoral process. The CRSCC argues that the Colorado decision deprives Colorado voters of the right to associate with the political party and nominee of their choosing. Anderson argues that Trump’s actions on January 6th sufficiently prove that he “engaged” in “insurrection.” Anderson contends that the plain meaning of “insurrection” includes the “concerted and public use of force . . . to hinder or prevent . . . a peaceful transfer of power.” Anderson emphasizes that the trial court’s findings of fact, such as its finding that Trump engaged in and incited insurrection, are entitled to deference because they are not clearly erroneous and are supported by substantial evidence. Anderson contends that Trump’s words and tweets before and during the attack stoked the crowd’s anger and encouraged imminent violence, satisfying the Brandenburg test. Anderson submits that Trump can still have engaged in insurrection without having personally participated in the violence. Anderson points out that even Reconstruction-era opponents of the Fourteenth Amendment recognized that engaging in insurrection did not require overt acts. Jena Griswold adds that the First Amendment does not entitle the CRSCC to include Trump on Colorado’s primary ballot. Griswold asserts that Colorado has an important interest in maintaining ballot integrity, and that the Colorado Election Code vindicates this interest in a non-discriminatory way. Griswold emphasizes that Colorado’s regulation applies equally to all candidates and parties. FEDERALISM AND ENFORCEMENT OF SECTION THREE Trump argues that, under Section Five of the Fourteenth Amendment, only Congress can enforce the Disqualification Clause. Trump asserts that his view is supported by Chief Justice Chase’s circuit court decision in In re Griffin, and Congress’ subsequent passage of the Enforcement Act of 1870. Trump maintains that, in the absence of easily discernible standards for states to determine whether a potential candidate has “engaged in insurrection,” disqualification by a state court is inappropriate. Trump also posits that Section Three cannot be used to remove him from the ballot because its text only forbids insurrectionists from holding office, not from running for
