---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/supct/cert/23-719
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:10:47.159006+00:00
last_updated: Wed, 14 Jan 2026 15:53:40 GMT
---
Trump v. Anderson LII note: The U.S Supreme Court has now decided Trump v. Anderson Issues Was the Colorado Supreme Court justified in excluding former President Donald Trump from Colorado’s 2024 presidential primary ballot on the basis of Section Three of the Fourteenth Amendment, a trial court’s finding that President Trump engaged in insurrection, and the Colorado Election Code? This case asks the Supreme Court to clarify the ambit and enforceability of Section Three of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, also known as the Disqualification Clause, which states that “[n]o person shall. . . hold any office, civil or military, under the United States, who, having previously taken an oath. . . as an officer of the United States . . . to support the Constitution of the United States, shall have engaged in insurrection or rebellion against the same.” Former President Donald Trump contends that he is not subject to Section Three disqualification because he has not served as a qualifying oath–taking “officer of the United States”; because his actions on January 6th, 2021 were protected speech, not insurrection; and because the Colorado Supreme Court's interpretation of Section Three was legally incorrect. A group of Colorado electors and Colorado Secretary of State Jena Griswold respond that the President is an “officer of the United States” such that Section Three applies to Trump; that Trump engaged in insurrection on January 6th, 2021 and does not qualify for First Amendment protection in that regard; and that the Colorado Supreme Court properly applied Section Three. This case has significant implications for democratic norms and institutions, parties’ and voters’ interests in elections, and the bounds of political activity. Questions as Framed for the Court by the Parties Whether the Colorado Supreme Court erred in ordering former President Donald Trump excluded from the 2024 presidential primary ballot. Facts On the morning of January 6th, 2021, the day that the United States Congress was scheduled to certify Joseph Biden’s election as the forty-sixth President of the United States, Petitioner Donald Trump held a rally at the Ellipse in Washington D.C. Trump, the forty-fifth President of the United States, made several statements to the crowd disputing the results of the 2020 presidential election. While Congress was in session, “a large group of people forcibly entered the Capitol [and] the law enforcement officers on site could not control it.” On September 6th, 2023, Respondents, a group of Colorado voters (including Norma Anderson) who were eligible to vote in Colorado’s Republican presidential primary, filed a petition against Colorado Secretary of State Jena Griswold in the District Court for the City and County of Denver. Respondents asserted that, per the Colorado Election Code that forbids Colorado election officials from “commit[ing] . . . a breach or neglect of duty or other wrongful act,” Griswold should not include Trump on the 2024 Republican presidential primary election ballot, because he was disqualified from public office under Section Three of the Fourteenth Amendment. Trump intervened in the suit. Trump sought removal to federal court, which remanded the matter to state court because Griswold “did not join or consent to removal.” The state case was reopened and the Colorado Republican State Central Committee (“CRSCC”) also intervened. The Denver District Court ruled that the case would proceed with a five-day trial. After trial, the Denver District Court found by clear and convincing evidence that Trump had engaged in an insurrection. However, the court declined to exclude Trump from the ballot, reasoning that the Disqualification Clause of Section Three of the Fourteenth Amendment, which disqualifies individuals from office who have previously “engaged in insurrection,” only applies to a candidate for an “office . . . under the United States” who has previously served as “an officer of the United States.” The court ruled that the Presidency is not such an “office.” Trump and the
