---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/ways-to-improve-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:21.199349+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:09 GMT
---
through your current credit card issuer or bank, or through Experian. 15. Protect Your Personal Information to Avoid Fraud Your credit can be affected by identity theft if fraudsters access your personal information to open accounts in your name. To help keep your data safe, use a password manager to create and store unique passwords and avoid making financial transactions on public Wi-Fi networks, which could be vulnerable to hackers. Learn more: What You Can Do to Avoid Identity and Credit Fraud 16. Responsibly Add to Your Credit Mix Lenders look for a mix of accounts in your credit file to show that you can manage multiple types of credit. These include installment loans, for which you pay a fixed amount per month, and revolving credit, which comes with a limit you can charge up to (as is the case with credit cards and home equity lines of credit). If you only have one type of credit in your file, adding something different could improve your credit mix. But while credit mix accounts for 10% of your FICOÂ® Score, you shouldn't apply for new credit accounts simply to improve your score. That could put you at risk of taking on debt you can't repay. 17. Create a Budget To help pay off debt and keep your spending in check long term, take time in 2026 to make a budget. This process will offer clarity on the amount you're earning and how much you can safely spend on discretionary items. You'll then be more likely to make smart choices when you're tempted to use a credit card, and you can prioritize limiting your credit utilization. 18. Work With a Nonprofit Credit Counseling Agency If you feel unsure about how to set up a budget or start attacking debt, a certified credit counselor at a nonprofit agency can provide a free initial consultation to discuss first steps. Credit counselors also offer debt management plans, which can help some borrowers pay down overwhelming debt. Learn more: How to Find a Good Credit Counselor 19. Avoid Credit Repair Scams Some for-profit companies claim to be able to remove negative information from your credit report for a fee. But the truth is that no company can legally erase information from your file if it's accurate. Avoid spending money on credit repair and take tried-and-true steps to improve your score instead, like lowering debt balances and paying your bills on time. 20. Add Rent Payments to Your Credit Report If you regularly pay rent on time, add those payments to your credit report to boost the amount of positive information reported to the credit bureaus. You can do so by signing up with a service such as Experian Boost, which adds eligible rent payments to your Experian credit report for free. Learn more: Does Renting an Apartment Build Credit? 21. Consider a Side Hustle If high credit card balances are holding you back from a higher credit score, bringing in extra cash could help you make quicker progress toward your goals. While income has no direct effect on your credit, using spare funds to pay off your credit card balances faster can have an impact. All else being equal, paying down your balances lowers your credit utilization ratio, which in turn can help your score. When considering a new side hustle, be sure to look for something that aligns with your current skills and interests. Also, be sure to factor in your scheduleâideally, look for a flexible gig that you can easily work around your current routine, such as freelancing or driving for a ridesharing app. Learn more: Side Hustles That Can Help You Pay Off Debt 22. Get a Loan With the Help of a Cosigner Making on-time payments toward an installment loan, similar to making timely payments on a credit card, helps build credit
