---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-remove-your-information-from-people-search-sites/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:55.345203+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:50 GMT
---
use. - Use Experian's personal privacy scan. Get a free one-time personal privacy scan to see if your information is on covered people finder sites. Experian members with a paid premium membership receive monthly scans and get help removing their information from the covered sites. - Sign up for identity theft protection. Look into identity protection services that monitor multiple databases. Some, including Experian's monitoring for paid members, can alert you if your information is found on the dark web or in court records, and when there are changes in your credit reports and financial accounts. You also could receive identity theft insurance and recovery assistance. - You may have additional options if you're trying to conceal your information because you're worried about an abuser or stalker. For example, many states can create a substitute mailing address for you and forward your mail while keeping your actual address confidential. You can search for address confidentiality programs in your state to see if this is an option. Learn more: 10 Identity Protection Tools and Measures You Can Use The Bottom Line People finder sites buy, collect and sell data on millions of people. Your information might be on dozens of these websites, making it easy for someone else to learn more about you, contact you or steal your identity. Removing your information isn't always easy. You can send requests to each of the sites or use programs that can look for your info and submit removal requests on your behalf. In either case, keeping your info off these sites can be an ongoing task. Monitor your credit for free Credit monitoring can help you detect possible identity fraud, and can prevent surprises when you apply for credit. Get daily notifications when changes are detected. Get free monitoringAbout the author Louis DeNicola is freelance personal finance and credit writer who works with Fortune 500 financial services firms, FinTech startups, and non-profits to teach people about money and credit. His clients include BlueVine, Discover, LendingTree, Money Management International, U.S News and Wirecutter. Read more from Louis
