---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-debt-relief-companies-8763179
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:00.590678+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation. Best Debt Relief Companies for February 2026 By Brendan Harkness Full Bio Brendan is a full-time senior editor of financial products and services at Investopedia. He has a decade of experience researching, writing, and editing content for financial and business publications about banking, credit and debt, auto loans, credit cards, and more. Previously, he was a managing editor at Credit Card Insider. Learn about our editorial policies Updated January 29, 2026 Fact checked by Betsy Petrick Fact checked by Betsy Petrick Full Bio Betsy began her career in international finance and it has since grown into a comprehensive approach to journalism as she's been able to tap into that experience along with her time spent in academia and professional services. Learn about our editorial policies Best Debt Relief Companies for February 2026 View All Best Debt Relief Companies for February 2026 Top Picks National Debt Relief Freedom Debt Relief Money Management International See More (6) New Era Debt Solutions Accredited Debt Relief TurboDebt Pacific Debt Relief Apprisen Precision Tax Relief Why Trust Us How Does Debt Relief Work? Who Is Debt Relief Good For? How Fast Can I Get Debt Relief? Common Terms Pros & Cons FAQs Methodology Investopedia’s found National Debt Relief to be the best overall choice for anyone seeking help from a debt settlement specialist. With over 1.2 million people helped, it has a long track record of successful debt settlement negotiation. If you’d like to start with credit counseling (a wise idea), our top-rated company is Apprisen. Investopedia’s research and editorial teams examined 26 of the best debt relief companies in September 2025 (covering debt settlement and credit counseling) and collected over 1,500 data points. We evaluated each company based on its fees, services, customer satisfaction, and other factors to determine our best picks. Best Debt Relief Companies for February 2026 Best Overall for Debt Settlement, Best for Credit Card Debt: National Debt Relief Best With Legal Support: Freedom Debt Relief Best for Low Fees, Best for Small Debts: Money Management International Also Great for Legal Support: New Era Debt Solutions Best for Accessible Customer Service: Accredited Debt Relief Best for Customer Satisfaction: TurboDebt Also Great for Debt Settlement: Pacific Debt Relief Best Overall for Credit Counseling: Apprisen Best for Tax Relief: Precision Tax Relief Important “Debt relief” can refer to a variety of financial services, including debt settlement, credit counseling, bankruptcy, and debt consolidation. Our ranking here shows debt settlement firms and credit counseling services. Be aware that debt settlement will have severe negative consequences for your credit. Best Overall for Debt Settlement, Best for Credit Card Debt : National Debt Relief Investopedia's Rating 4.8 out of 5 stars Services: Debt settlement, debt consolidation loansDebt settlement fee: 15% to 25% of enrolled debtMinimum debt required: $10,000 Learn More (opens in a new tab) Pros & Cons Pros Helped over 1.2 million people settle debts Nationwide availability (except for four states) Highest-rated company that works with credit card debt Cons Residents of Connecticut, Oregon, Vermont, and West Virginia are not eligible Savings account fees are not disclosed Doesn’t offer legal support Why We Chose It We picked National Debt Relief (NDR) as the best overall debt settlement company because it beat the competition in just about every respect. NDR will attempt to help you settle your outstanding debt for less than you owe; if it’s successful, it charges 15% to 25% of the enrolled debt. NDR works with many common types of debt, including credit card balances, lines of credit, personal loans, collection accounts, and even business debts. You’ll need to be at least $10,000 in debt to work with National Debt Relief, which is a bit more than some other companies but not an uncommon requirement. NDR
