---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/compliance/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:31.251534+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Compliance The Bureau provides different forms of guidance and compliance resources to help you understand and comply with our rules and the statutes we implement. On this page, we provide regulatory guidance and compliance resources, supervisory process and guidance documents, and information on the Bureau’s registration and submission programs. Supervisory resources Supervision and examinations Learn more about the Bureau’s supervisory authority and understand how our regional offices conduct examinations and assess compliance with federal consumer financial law. Supervisory Highlights We periodically release Supervisory Highlights to share key examination findings and to help the entities we supervise limit risks to consumers and comply with federal consumer financial law. Supervisory guidance We periodically release policy guidance, including compliance bulletins, joint-agency memoranda, and other notices and guidance to inform and advise regulated entities. Compliance resources Guides, videos, and other resources to help entities understand, implement, and comply with Bureau rules and the statutes we implement. Consumer Financial Protection Circulars Consumer Financial Protection Circulars are policy statements advising parties with authority to enforce federal consumer financial law. Advisory Opinion program The Bureau’s Advisory Opinion program provides written guidance to assist regulated entities to better understand their legal and regulatory obligations through advisory opinions. Registration and submission programs Certain entities are required by regulation to register or submit information to the Bureau. Please find links to the relevant information below. Amicus program Our "friend of the court" briefs provide courts with the CFPB’s views on significant consumer financial protection issues in an effort to ensure that consumer financial protection statutes and regulations are correctly and consistently interpreted. Guidance compendium The Compendium of Recent CFPB Guidance compiles many CFPB guidance documents released from October 2021 through January 2025. Page last modified @
