---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-contact-the-credit-bureaus/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:56.924690+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:42 GMT
---
(or "thawing") a freeze temporarily and for giving a lender one-time access to your frozen credit report. You may also request to freeze (or thaw) your Experian credit report by calling 888-397-3742 or by sending a request in writing to: Experian P.O. Box 9554 Allen, TX 75013 Keep in mind that a credit freeze can restrict both unauthorized and legitimate access to your credit reports. That means if you apply for a loan, credit card or other form of credit that requires a credit check, you must grant the creditor access to your credit report or lift the freeze to allow your application to be processed. Request a Fraud Alert When a creditor or other legally authorized entity checks your credit report, a fraud alert informs them that criminals may be misusing your personal information, and asks them to verify your identity before processing a loan or credit application. You have the right to place a fraud alert on your credit reports. Like a security freeze, a fraud alert can help prevent bogus credit accounts from being opened in your name, but it is less restrictive and often more convenient for individuals who are actively seeking credit. Unlike a security freeze, a fraud alert will expire on its own unless you extend it (after one year or seven years, depending on the type of alert). When you place a fraud alert on your credit report at one credit bureau, it is automatically applied at all three bureaus. However, removing fraud alerts before they expire requires contacting each bureau separately. You can place a fraud alert on your Experian credit report online at the Experian Fraud Alert Center, by calling 888-397-3742 or by mailing a written request to: Experian P.O. Box 9554 Allen, TX 75013 How to Contact TransUnion TransUnion's Consumer Support page contains links to pages you can use to request a credit report, file a dispute to correct inaccuracies in your TransUnion credit report, manage security freezes or fraud alerts, and set up and control paid subscription services. You can also perform most actions by calling TransUnion at 800-916-8800; other phone numbers dedicated to paid services are provided on TransUnion's customer service page. How to Contact Equifax Equifax's Online Self Service page includes links for obtaining a credit report, disputing inaccuracies in your Equifax credit report and managing fraud alerts and security freezes. It also links to forms you can download and print out to request those services by mail. Equifax customer service is available by phone at 888-EQUIFAX (888-378-4329). Why You May Need to Contact the Credit Bureaus There are a number of reasons you may need to contact one (or all) of the credit bureaus, including to: Check your credit report: Each of the three credit bureaus allows you access to free credit reports with registration for an account. How often you can receive these reports varies from one bureau to another, however. - Request a fraud alert or security freeze: If you're concerned that criminals may be abusing your personal data, placing a fraud alert or security freeze on your credit reports can help prevent creation of bogus credit accounts in your name. - Check your credit score: Access to your credit scores varies from one bureau to the next, but you can typically check your credit score for free or a nominal fee. Your credit score could give you insight into your chances of being approved for credit, for instance. - Dispute inaccuracies on your credit report: If you notice inaccurate information on your credit reportâa misattributed late payment or collection account, for exampleâyou have the right to dispute the matter and to have the errant entry removed or corrected. - Manage your account: If you've set up accounts with any of the bureaus, or you wish to register for a subscription, you may want
