---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/ask-cfpb/how-do-i-get-a-free-copy-of-my-credit-reports-en-5/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:53:08.296999+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
How do I get a free copy of my credit reports? English - Español - You have the right to request one free copy of your credit report each year from each of the three major consumer reporting companies (Equifax, Experian and TransUnion) by visiting AnnualCreditReport.com. You may also be able to view free reports more frequently online. Where can I get a credit report? You can request and review your free report through one of the following ways: Online: Visit AnnualCreditReport.com - Phone: Call (877) 322-8228 - Mail: Download and complete the Annual Credit Report Request form . Mail the completed form to: - Annual Credit Report Request Service P.O. Box 105281 Atlanta, GA 30348-5281 You can request all three reports at once or you can order one report at a time. By requesting the reports separately (for example, one every four months) you can monitor your credit report throughout the year. Once you’ve received your annual free credit report, you can still request additional reports. By law, a credit reporting company can charge no more than $14.50 for a credit report. You may be able to view free credit reports more frequently online. When you visit AnnualCreditReport.com , you may see steps to view your updated credit reports at no cost, online. This gives you a greater ability to monitor changes in your credit. If needed, you can also ask whether your credit report is available in your preferred language. You are also eligible for reports from specialty consumer reporting companies. We put together a list that includes several of these companies so you can see which ones might be important to you. You have to request the reports individually from each of these companies. Most of the companies in this list provide a report for free every 12 months. Other companies may charge you a fee for your report. How can I get additional free credit reports? You can get additional free reports if any of the following apply to you: You received a notice that you were denied credit, insurance, or employment or experienced another “adverse action” based on a credit report. In this case, you have a right to a free report from the credit reporting company identified in the notice. To get the free report you must request it within 60 days after you receive the notice. Other types of “adverse action” notices you might receive include notice of an unfavorable change in the terms or amount of your credit or insurance coverage, or unfavorable changes in the terms of your employment or of a license or other government benefit. - You believe your file is inaccurate due to fraud. - You have requested a credit report from a nationwide credit reporting company in connection with placing of an initial fraud alert on your credit file (you may request two free copies for an extended fraud alert). - You are unemployed and intend to apply for employment within 60 days from the date of your request. - You are a recipient of public welfare assistance. - Your state law provides for a free credit report. - Page last modified @
