---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-protect-yourself-from-identity-theft/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:21.387635+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:49 GMT
---
like coffee shops and airports are generally secure thanks to encryption measures that most websites adopt. However, you should verify the encryption before you trust a public Wi-Fi network. To see whether a website is encrypted, check for a lock symbol or https:// in the address bar to the left of the web address. Also, be sure to double-check that you're connecting to a legitimate public Wi-Fi network. Other steps you can take to shield your information from cyber crooks when you're connected to a public Wi-Fi network include: Avoid sharing sensitive information - Use a virtual private network (VPN) - Make sure your computer's operating system is up to date - Log out of all online accounts after you've finished your business - Install and update antivirus software - 10. Limit What You Share on Social Media It's tempting to share details about your life on social media. But doing so can feed a fraudster's need for personal information. Some of the information you should keep to yourself includes: Answers to common security questions, such as your mother's maiden name or the make and model of your first car - Your address - Images of sensitive documents like your driver's license or passport - Credit card numbers and other account numbers - Usernames and passwords - 11. Use a Privacy Screen Especially when you're using a computer in public, you may want to look into getting a privacy screen. You attach this type of filter or panel to a laptop or computer monitor to help shield your information from nosy people near you. A privacy screen works by making it tougher for someone to view an electronic screen. You can also get a privacy screen for your mobile phone to deter "screen creepers" or "shoulder surfers." How to Recognize Signs of Identity Theft Signs that you may be a victim of identity theft include: You receive bills for merchandise you didn't purchase - You receive calls from debt collectors about accounts that you didn't authorize - You see information on your credit report for accounts that you didn't authorize - You get denied for credit applications - You notice that mail is missing from your mailbox or stops being delivered - What to Do if You're a Victim of Identity Theft If you discover you're a victim or potential victim of identity theft, make these moves: You have the right to place a free fraud alert on your credit report. When you set up an alert through Experian, for instance, the two other major credit bureaus (Equifax and TransUnion) will automatically be notified. - File a report with your local law enforcement agency. - Monitor your credit reports to detect suspicious activity. - Contact the companies, such as banks and credit card issuers, that are responsible for any accounts you suspect are in jeopardy. You might need to cancel accounts involved in your case of identity theft. - Dispute transactions that you believe were made fraudulently. - The Bottom Line Identity theft can trigger a variety of financial problems. But you can protect yourself from being a victim of identity theft by embracing the right approach, such as guarding your personal and financial information and regularly reviewing your credit reports. To add a layer of protection, consider signing up for identity theft protection from Experian. Monitor your credit for free Credit monitoring can help you detect possible identity fraud, and can prevent surprises when you apply for credit. Get daily notifications when changes are detected. Get free monitoringAbout the author John Egan is a freelance writer, editor and content marketing strategist in Austin, Texas. His work has been published by outlets such as CreditCards.com, Bankrate, Credit Karma, LendingTree, PolicyGenius, HuffPost, National Real Estate Investor and Urban Land. Read more from John
