---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-robo-advisors-8764849
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:51.464816+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
or at least $250 per month in recurring account deposits. Otherwise, the fee is $4/month. 0.65% (annual) fee on accounts with at least $100,000 in assets for Betterment Premium account holders with unlimited access to certified financial planners. There are no management fees for Betterment Checking or Cash Reserve. There are additional fee discounts for accounts above $1 million. Paid non-client of Betterment. Views may not be representative, see more reviews at the App Store and Google Play Store. Learn More about this relationship. Learn More (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It Best for Beginners Betterment allows individuals to start investing with just $10, enabling first-time investors to easily create goals and access a range of portfolio choices. Best for Cash Management Betterment stands out from competitors because of its automatic sweep functionality, access to a high-yield cash reserve and checking account through partner banks, and reimbursement for ATM fees. Betterment's cash reserve account has no minimum balance requirement and you can easily automate your saving and investing with the account tools. Best for Tax-Loss Harvesting Betterment seeks optimal after-tax returns by integrating client transactions, asset rebalancing, and tax-loss harvesting. The platform also maintains a list of comparable funds for each asset class to help investors diversify their portfolios and avoid the wash sale rule. Pros & Cons Pros Easy setup and goal tracking Multiple portfolio choices, including smart beta, three socially responsible investing (SRI) options, target income, crypto, and more. $0 account minimum and $10 to begin investing Low-fee financial advice packages for digital customers Cons No borrowing on a portfolio line of credit Premium plan requires $100,000 No REIT exposure Overview Founded in 2008 by Eli Broverman and Jon Stein, Betterment now serves more than 900,000 customers, making it one of the largest standalone robo-advisors. The platform has users answer a brief questionnaire to help it determine their investment goals, time horizon, and risk tolerance. Using customers’ questionnaire answers, Betterment recommends an investment portfolio to each user designed to meet their financial needs. Betterment users can choose from among 11 portfolios with a range of asset allocation choices—including a portfolio aimed at long-term investing with low costs and portfolios focused on high-growth tech companies and others on undervalued U.S. companies. Betterment’s powerful cash management product goes a step beyond the competition by offering a tax strategy that reflects a customer’s circumstances and goals. Essentially, Betterment can place assets in a taxable, tax-deferred, or tax-exempt account according to its taxation risk while using the customer’s overall target asset allocation. On Feb. 26, 2025, Betterment announced that it has acquired the automated investing business of Ellevest, a woman-focused wealth management firm and robo-advisory. Cash Reserve is only available to clients of Betterment LLC—which is not a bank— and cash transfers to program banks are conducted through the clients’ brokerage accounts at Betterment Securities. For Cash Reserve (“CR”), Betterment LLC only receives compensation from our program banks; Betterment LLC and Betterment Securities do not charge fees on your CR balance. Checking accounts and the Betterment Visa Debit Card provided and issued by nbkc bank, Member FDIC. Checking made available through Betterment Financial LLC. Neither Betterment Financial LLC, nor any of their affiliates, is a bank. Betterment Financial LLC reimburses ATM fees and the Visa® 1% foreign transaction fee worldwide, everywhere Visa is accepted. Best for Low Costs : Fidelity Go Investopedia's Rating 4.3 out of 5 stars Fidelity Account Minimum: $0 to open an account, $10 to be investedFee: $0 for accounts under $25,000, 0.35% annual fee for balances over $25,000 Learn More (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It Fidelity Go is Investopedia’s choice for the best robo-advisor for low costs because the platform doesn’t charge any fees on accounts with balances of less than $25,000. In addition, when the 0.35% annual fee does kick
