---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/about-ftc/bureaus-offices
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:56:23.573166+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 09 Feb 2026 07:54:06 GMT
---
Bureaus The Bureau of Competition seeks to prevent anticompetitive mergers and other anticompetitive business practices in the marketplace. By enforcing the antitrust laws, the Bureau promotes competition and protects consumers' freedom to choose goods and services in an open marketplace at a price and quality that fit their needs. - The Bureau of Consumer Protection's mandate is to protect consumers against unfair, deceptive or fraudulent practices. The Bureau enforces a variety of consumer protection laws enacted by Congress, as well as trade regulation rules issued by the Commission. Its actions include individual company and industry-wide investigations, administrative and federal court litigation, rulemaking proceedings, and consumer and business education. In addition, the Bureau contributes to the Commission's on-going efforts to inform Congress and other government entities of the impact that proposed actions could have on consumers. - The Bureau of Economics helps the FTC evaluate the economic impact of its actions. To do so, the Bureau provides economic analysis and support to antitrust and consumer protection investigations and rulemakings. It also analyzes the impact of government regulation on competition and consumers and provides Congress, the Executive Branch and the public with economic analysis of market processes as they relate to antitrust, consumer protection, and regulation. - Offices Office of Administrative Law Judges - Office of the Chief Financial Officer - Office of the Chief Privacy Officer - Office of Congressional Relations - Office of the Executive Director - Office of International Affairs - Office of Policy Planning - Office of the General Counsel - Office of Public Affairs - Office of the Secretary - Office of Technology - Regional Offices -
