---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-robo-advisors-8764849
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:51.464816+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
3.30% variable base APY to an even higher 3.95%, for a limited time, provided through program banks. Get started today. Terms & Conditions apply. Why We Chose It Best Overall Wealthfront is the best overall robo-advisor. It offers investment and money management products that meet the needs of any type of investor. The platform has low fees and a low required minimum investment of $500. It offers individual stock investing, high-yield cash, digital financial planning, automated tax-loss harvesting, and lending capabilities. Best for Portfolio Management Wealthfront makes it easy for investors to manage their portfolios, enabling them to link multiple investment accounts for an overview and analysis of their finances. The platform also offers a digital financial planner, known as Path, which can answer up to 10,000 questions and offer personalized recommendations for an account owner’s portfolio. Best for Goal Planning The platform’s digital financial planner, Path, can help investors plan for the future, answering questions like, “Can I live my current lifestyle in retirement?” and, “How much should I be saving today?” The tool can help investors set financial goals and offer guidance on achieving them, from retirement and homeownership to college planning. Best for Portfolio Construction Wealthfront portfolios cover 17 global asset classes—including stocks, bonds, and inflation assets—offering some of the best-constructed portfolios from a robo-advisor. They’re constructed based on investment management research, including modern portfolio theory (MPT), created by Harry Markowitz. Important Wealthfront, one of the leading robo-advisors, went public on December 12, 2025. It trades on the Nasdaq under its ticker WLTH. Pros & Cons Pros Core and ESG portfolios with many customization options Wide range of account types, including 529 plans for college savings Direct indexing with individual stocks for accounts over $100,000 Low-fee S&P 500 Direct indexing with a minimum of $5,000 Best-in-class Path digital financial planner Cons No access to a human financial advisor No online chat option Phone access isn’t straightforward Overview Wealthfront was founded in 2008 by tech entrepreneurs Dan Carroll and Andy Rachleff and has since become one of the most innovative robo-advisor platforms, serving over 700,000 customers. The company has grown to include hundreds of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and an automated bond portfolio, beyond the Core and ESG robo-advisory portfolios. It gives investors access to automated investment portfolios spanning 17 global asset classes tailored to their unique goals, time horizons, and risk tolerance. Investors can view other portfolio options with greater or lesser risk levels, and then rebalance their portfolios with an asset mix that meets their needs. New & Notable On Oct. 7, 2025, Wealthfront announced the launch of the Nasdaq-100 Direct. For a 0.12% advisory fee, this first of its kind product allows its customers to access individual stocks in the Nasdaq 100 Index, while still offering Tax-Loss Harvesting to capture losses from daily price movements in those stocks even when the index is up. Best for Beginners, Best for Cash Management, Best for Tax-Loss Harvesting : Betterment Investopedia's Rating 4.7 out of 5 stars Account Minimum: $0, $10 minimum to start investing, $50 minimum for rebalancingFees: 0.25% (annual) for investing plan accounts with at least $20,000 or at least $250 per month in recurring account deposits. Otherwise, the fee is $4/month. 0.65% (annual) fee on accounts with at least $100,000 in assets for Betterment Premium account holders with unlimited access to certified financial planners. There are no management fees for Betterment Checking or Cash Reserve. There are additional fee discounts for accounts above $1 million. Paid non-client of Betterment. Views may not be representative, see more reviews at the App Store and Google Play Store. Learn More about this relationship. Learn More (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It Best for Beginners Betterment allows individuals to start investing with just $10, enabling first-time investors to easily create goals and access a range of portfolio
