---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/help/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:54.805436+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 21:35:42 GMT
---
What can we help you with? Frequently asked questions The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) helps protect you by regulating how information in your consumer report can be used and accessed. You may request and obtain all the information about you in the files of a consumer reporting agency and are entitled to a free disclosure if: A person has taken adverse action against you because of information in your credit report - You are the victim of identity theft and place a fraud alert on your credit file - Your file contains inaccurate information as a result of fraud - You are on public assistance - You are unemployed but expect to apply for employment within 60 days - In addition, you are entitled to a free credit report from all three credit reporting agencies. You can get free weekly credit reports throughÂ AnnualCreditReport.com. Learn more about the Fair Credit Reporting ActExperian provides multiple ways to retrieve your account information. For assistance on login issues or account recovery, visit our login FAQs. Option 1: Update your membership online Sign in to update your membership from a paid monthly membership to a free membership with no monthly costs by simply selecting the type of membership you would like to change to. Sign in to update nowAfter you sign in you will be automatically redirected to your membership settings. Updating to a free account online includes the following benefits: Your Experian credit report and FICOÂ® Score* updated daily on sign-in - Experian credit monitoring with alerts when key changes occur - Access to Experian online disputes to review and correct inaccuracies - Upgrade and change your account anytime as your needs change - Option 2: Update your membership by phone If you have questions about your membership or would like to update your membership, you may also contact us by phone. Contact usTo update your member notifications, you can: Sign in to your Experian account. - Navigate to Your Account. - Go to Notification Preferences. - You can adjust your notifications for your score and credit rating changes, educational tips and for personalized offers sent to you. Types of alerts that Experian will always send to you: Your credit file is locked, unlocked or frozen - There's an inquiry when your credit file is locked or frozen - Your info appears on any public records listings or people finder sites - A creditor needs to further verify your identity, possibly due to a fraud alert - Your personal info changes - Experian, along with the other major credit reporting agencies (TransUnion and Equifax), is usually informed of a person's death by the Social Security Administration (SSA) or by the deceased's creditors. To help prevent identity theft and ensure the process moves more quickly, it's a good idea to notify Experian directly as soon as possible. Note that only a spouse or another legally authorized individualâsuch as the estate's executorâcan report a death to the credit bureaus. Learn how to report a death to ExperianIf you're notified by Experian that your account has been disconnected from Experian Boost, follow the steps outlined below so you can get your account reconnected as soon as possible. This process is virtually the same as when you initially signed up for Experian Boost or Personal Finances and should only take a few minutes. How to reconnect, step by step: Sign inÂ to your Experian account. - Tap âReconnect nowâ on the banner that appears below the bank that's disconnected. - Reconnect your account by logging in with your bank credentials. - Head to your Experian Boost and/or Personal Finances dashboards and make sure the account is connected. - Why do I have to reconnect my bank account? As Experian continues to work with our partners to provide the highest level of security and data privacy possible,
