---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution-conan/amendment-14/modern-doctrine-on-appropriate-scrutiny
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:10:59.629098+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 06 Mar 2025 19:32:17 GMT
---
“diversity writ large.” Id. at 2211. “A university’s goals cannot be elusory or amorphous—they must be sufficiently measurable to permit judicial scrutiny of the policies adopted to reach them.” Id. The Court also noted that the asserted goals of UT’s affirmative action program “mirror” those approved in earlier cases (for example, ending stereotypes and promoting cross-racial understanding). Id. at 2211. - 27 - Id. at 2211–13. The Court further emphasized that the fact that race allegedly plays a minor role in UT admissions, given that approximately seventy-five percent of the incoming class is admitted under the ten percent plan, shows that the challenged use of race in determining the composition of the rest of the incoming class is narrowly tailored, not that it is unconstitutional. Id. at 2212. - 28 - Id. at 2212–14. - 29 - Id. at 2211 ( “Petitioner’s contention that the University’s goal was insufficiently concrete is rebutted by the record” ). - 30 - Id. at 2211–12. - 31 - 551 U.S. 701 (2007). Another case involving racial diversity in public schools, Meredith v. Jefferson Cnty. Bd. of Educ., was argued separately before the Court on the same day, but the two cases were subsequently consolidated and both were addressed in the cited opinion. - 32 - In Seattle, students could choose among ten high schools in the school district, but, if an oversubscribed school was not within ten percentage points of the district’s overall White/non-White racial balance, the district would assign students whose race would serve to bring the school closer to the desired racial balance. 127 S. Ct. at 2747. In Jefferson County, assignments and transfers were limited when such action would cause a school’s Black enrollment to fall below fifteen percent or exceed fifty percent. Id. at 2749. - 33 - 127 S. Ct. at 2753–54. The Court also noted that, in Grutter, the Court had relied upon “considerations unique to institutions of higher education.” Id. at 2574 (finding that, as stated in Grutter, 539 U.S. at 329, because of the “expansive freedoms of speech and thought associated with the university environment, universities occupy a special niche in our constitutional tradition” ). - 34 - In his analysis of whether the plans were narrowly tailored to the governmental interest in question, Justice Anthony Kennedy focused on a lack of clarity in the administration and application of Kentucky’s plan and the use of the “crude racial categories” of “white” and “non-white” (which failed to distinguish among racial minorities) in the Seattle plan. 127 S. Ct. at 2790–91. - 35 - 127 S. Ct. at 2760–61. Some other means suggested by Justice Anthony Kennedy (which by implication could be constitutionally used to address racial imbalance in schools) included strategic site selection for new schools, the redrawing of attendance zones, the allocation of resources for special programs, the targeted recruiting of students and faculty, and the tracking of enrollments, performance, and other statistics by race. - 36 - Marks v. United States, 430 U.S. 188, 193 (1977) ( “When a fragmented Court decides a case and no single rationale enjoys the assent of five Justices, ‘the holding of the Court may be viewed as that position taken by those Members who concurred in the judgment on the narrowest grounds . . . .’” ). - 37 - No. 20-1199 (U.S. June 29, 2023). This case involved a challenge to Harvard’s admissions program under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which provides that “[n]o person in the United States shall, on the ground of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.” Id. at 6 n.2 (quoting 42 U.S.C. § 2000d). The Court noted that “discrimination that violates the Equal Protection Clause
