---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-save-money/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:17.371126+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:50 GMT
---
Need a Budget or HoneyDue to help you stick to your budget. Learn more: Types of Budget Plans to Know About 4. Automate Savings Simplify savings by setting up automatic transfers into your savings account each time you get paid. You can typically do this through your employer or by using your bank's mobile app or website. You may even have the option to split your savings into multiple savings accountsâfor example, one account for your emergency fund and another for your upcoming honeymoon. Grow your savings faster by choosing a high-yield savings account, which typically offers interest earnings significantly higher than those of standard savings accounts. Earn Money Faster Compare high-yield savings accounts Find a high-yield savings account with todayâs APY. Compare current APY and offers to find the best savings account for you. 5. Cancel Unused Subscriptions Check your bank and credit card statements each month for recurring subscriptions or memberships, such as streaming services, gym memberships, newspapers or apps. Save money by canceling those you no longer use. Learn more: How to Manage Your Monthly Subscriptions 6. Buy Generic Brands Opting for generic versions of groceries, household items and prescription and non-prescription medications can save you a lot of money. Ask your doctor to prescribe generic versions of your medications whenever possible. Compare ingredients of brand-name and generic over-the-counter medications. 7. Look for Discounts and Coupons From restaurants and retailers to supermarkets, gas stations and airlines, just about every business offers rewards programs these days. Joining, which typically involves downloading an app, can give you access to discounts and deals. You can also find discounts by searching online for digital coupon codes before making a purchase. Don't buy just because there's a discount, though. Shop intentionally, seeking discounts only for things you plan to buy anyway. 8. Join a Buy Nothing Group "Buy nothing" groups can help you save money and prevent waste. Join a group such as Buy Nothing or The Freecycle Network to post items you no longer need, search for items neighbors are giving away or request something you want. Giveaways can range from dog food and baby clothes to sporting goods and furniture. You can also find buy nothing groups on social media. 9. Shut Down Impulse Spending When you're bombarded with marketing messages all day long, your willpower can easily weaken. To nip impulsive shopping in the bud, unsubscribe from marketing emails and text alerts; unfollow brands on social media; stop reading blogs or publications that spur you to spend and delete shopping apps from your phone. Learn more: How to Stop Impulse Spending 10. Pause Before You Purchase Making it more difficult to make a purchase can help you stick to a budget. Delete your payment card information from shopping websites so you can't just click to buy. Set a rule that you must wait a certain amount of time, such as 72 hours or one week, before making a discretionary purchase. In most cases, once your time limit expires, you'll find you don't want the item anymore. 11. Cut Utility Usage Look for ways to lower your water, gas and electricity bills. For example, take shorter showers, install water-saving plumbing fixtures or cut back on watering your lawn. Turn off lights and electronics when not in use. In summer, cool your home with ceiling fans and room-darkening curtains and set your thermostat at 78 degrees to minimize air conditioning use. In cold weather, seal cracks to eliminate drafts; set your thermostat at 68 degrees and dress warmly. 12. Try a Savings Challenge Make a game of saving money by taking a savings challenge. Here are a few to try: 52-week challenge: Put $1 in savings the first week, $2 the second week, $3 the third week and so on. - Round-up challenge: Round up every purchase to the nearest dollar
