---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-the-average-credit-score-in-the-u-s/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:26.800261+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:28 GMT
---
insurance premiums than older generations, has seen average car insurance premiums increase 20% over the past year, according to federal data. Meanwhile, rental costs (most independent Gen Zers are renters) increased by more than 30% since 2019 in many housing markets. - Millennials yearning for their first home are having doubts if they'll ever reach the American dream, as homeownership levels for millennials are lower than for the generations who preceded them when they were that age. Mortgage rates increasing to 7% despite fed rate cuts doesn't make that aspiration any easier. - Generation X, still carrying the largest debt burden by far, is nearing retirement age, and many would-be retirees' accounts are nowhere near ready for that moment. - Baby boomers, often considered the most fortunate generation economically, are facing difficult decisions of their own. If they're homeowners, whether to relocate or stay put in retirement may be top of mind. Moreover, suddenly rising home insurance costs in some parts of the country are placing would-be retirees with fixed incomes in precarious financial positions. - Further permutations beyond generational differences certainly exist as well. In no particular order: Some regions of the country, which also happen to be three of the most populous states in the nation (California, Florida and Texas) are experiencing property insurance crises, each state in its own unhappy way, though all have a change in perceived risk to property as a root cause. - In those states as well as others, drivers are having similar issues with automobile insurance, with certain insurers exiting the state market, leaving once-insured drivers at least temporarily stranded. - And the percentage of uninsured drivers continues to increase, which is a concern above and beyond other, more typical, financial stressors. - Notice that none of these financial concerns have to do with maxed-out credit cards, "YOLO" spending or concerns about not being able to visit Cabo more regularly. If there are financial concerns, they typically don't begin with excessive consumer discretionary spending. Credit Score Awareness Dips Slightly According to an Experian survey fielded in December 2024 of more than 1,000 consumers, slightly fewer consumers in 2024 could say they knew their credit score versus 2023. Overall, 72% of survey respondents said they had at least a rough idea of their credit score, down from 78% when we asked the same question in 2023. Question: Do you know your credit score, either roughly or exactly? The slight decline in credit score awareness across all ages (except for those ages 65 and over) appears to be statistically significant. And although more than 7 in 10 adults ages 25 to 64 say they are keeping on top of their credit score, there's still a gap between them and younger consumers. Consumers who are still early on their financial journey generally have less awareness about their credit score, perhaps due to not yet needing that first credit card or auto loan. "Because of credit education [among] other reasons, people have been increasingly responsible with their money," Experian's Bander says. "That's a trend that started more than 10 years ago." Recent economic research also found this to be the case. Tracking Your Credit Score Knowing your FICO® Score (or not knowing it) is one thing, but understanding how credit scores work is another animal altogether. Those who do know their credit scores probably have some sense about what improves or hurts a credit score, by either noting that decreases often coincide with negative credit reporting events, while improvements often happen when a credit card balance is significantly reduced, for example. But there are some core strategies that, when followed, could improve one's credit health: Make on-time payments. Payment history is the most important factor in your FICO® Score. Lenders typically report missed debt payments to the credit bureaus when they are 30 or more days
