---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/enforcement/refunds/amazon-refunds
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:56:22.557276+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 09 Feb 2026 07:56:07 GMT
---
As the result of the Trump-Vance FTC’s historic $2.5 billion settlement, Amazon began sending claim notices to eligible Prime customers in January 2026. If you need help with your claim form, please contact Amazon at admin@SubscriptionMembershipSettlement.com. What was the lawsuit about? According to the FTC’s lawsuit, Amazon: allegedly enrolled tens of millions of customers in Amazon Prime subscriptions without their knowledge or consent - made it difficult for customers to cancel their Amazon Prime subscriptions. - As the result of the Trump-Vance FTC’s historic settlement, Amazon is required to pay $1.5 billion for refunds to customers affected by its unlawful Prime enrollment and cancellation practices. Amazon is also required to pay a $1 billion civil penalty and cease unlawful enrollment and cancellation practices for Prime subscriptions. Amazon will pay refunds in two stages: (1) an automatic refund process for eligible Prime customers; and (2) a claims process for eligible Prime customers who didn’t get an automatic refund. How much will my payment be? Under the settlement, eligible Prime customers will receive a refund of their Amazon Prime subscription fees, up to a maximum of $51. When will I get my payment? Amazon sent automatic refunds to eligible Prime customers in November and December 2025. Amazon is now sending claims notices to eligible Prime customers who did not receive an automatic refund. For the claims process, Amazon expects to send payments in late 2026. They don’t have a mailing date yet for payments. If you need help with your payment or claim form, please contact Amazon at admin@SubscriptionMembershipSettlement.com. Who is eligible to apply for a refund? You may apply for a refund from Amazon if you meet all three requirements: You are an Amazon Prime customer in the United States. - You signed up for an Amazon Prime subscription through a “challenged enrollment flow” or tried to cancel through the online cancellation flow but were unable to do so between June 23, 2019 and June 23, 2025. - You used no more than three (3) Amazon Prime Benefits (including Prime Music or Prime Video products offered for free to Prime subscribers) in any 12-month period following Amazon Prime enrollment. - The “challenged enrollment flows” are universal Prime decision page, shipping selection page, single page checkout, or the Prime Video enrollment flow. You do not need to determine if you signed up through a challenged enrollment flow, Amazon will complete that analysis for you. I’m an eligible Prime customer, but I didn’t get an automatic refund, now what? In January 2026, Amazon began sending claim notices by mail or email to eligible Prime customers who didn’t get an automatic refund between November 2025 and December 2025. Your claim notice will provide instructions on how you can file a claim. If you need help with your claim form, please contact Amazon at admin@SubscriptionMembershipSettlement.com. The FTC will never ask you to pay to get a refund. Don't pay anyone who promises you a refund in exchange for a fee. And don’t give personal information to anyone who contacts you promising a refund. How will I get my refund? You can select how to get your payment on your claim form. You can get your payment by check, PayPal, or Venmo. If you need help with your payment or claim form, please contact Amazon at admin@SubscriptionMembershipSettlement.com. Where can I get more information? For more information, visit www.SubscriptionMembershipSettlement.com or send an email to admin@subscriptionmembershipsettlement.com. For now, you can: bookmark ftc.gov/Amazon and check back often - sign up to get e-mail updates about this refund program. -
