---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-the-average-credit-score-in-the-u-s/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:26.800261+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:28 GMT
---
What Is the Average Credit Score in the US? Quick Answer Going into 2025, the average credit score was 715, remaining unchanged from 2023. For U.S. states, average scores range from a high in Minnesota of 742 to a low of 680 in Mississippi. Younger generations have average scores in the good credit score range (670 to 739), while older generations have average scores in the very good range (740 to 799). The average credit score was 715 in 2024, according to Experian data. That average, as of September 2024, is unchanged from the same month in 2023. For 11 straight years, the average FICOÂ® ScoreÎ in the United States hasn't decreased on an annual basis. The resilience of the U.S. consumer evident here has arguably been assisted by increased awareness of financial matters, including the power of their credit score. Consumer credit score highlights include: Nearly three-quarters of consumers (71.2%) have a good or better credit score (670 or higher). Good credit is the first step to being reliably approved for loans and credit cards. Although better scores can mean better rates, financial factors outside a consumer's credit score could still limit their options. - Broadly speaking, average credit scores changed little in most parts of the country. While some smaller states saw a slight uptick in their average credit score, the most populous states saw either no movement or a slight decline. - Credit card balance increased slowly as average credit card interest rates climbed to a new high. Consumers reduced the financial pressure of added debt and interest in several ways. Many decreased or eliminated additional credit card spending, and borrowers also sought refinancing options such as debt consolidation loans or 0% intro APR balance transfer cards. - In this recap, we'll look at what drove credit scores up, down and sideways in 2024. Average Credit Score in the U.S. Remains 715 Nationwide, Experian noted no change in the average FICOÂ® Score, which held steady at 715 through the 12 months ending September 2024. Although credit scores remained stable, that doesn't mean the economic conditions surrounding consumer credit scores were status quo. Monetary policy that was tight for most of 2024 began to loosen with the Federal Reserve deciding to lower the federal funds interest rate by a total of 1 percentage point with three cuts made in October, November and December 2024. Other economic factors, such as low unemployment rates and subdued inflation, were also largely working in consumers' favor as of late 2024. As price hikes slowed, stopped or reversed, expenses were generally stabilizing for working consumers who likely still have the income to both spend and service debts they currently have. Average Credit Scores by State Average FICOÂ® Scores in most states remained unchanged or only moved by one point in either direction in 2024. Average FICOÂ® Score by State State | 2023 | 2024 | Change (Points) | ---|---|---|---| Alabama | 692 | 692 | 0 | ---|---|---|---| Alaska | 722 | 722 | 0 | ---|---|---|---| Arizona | 713 | 712 | -1 | ---|---|---|---| Arkansas | 696 | 695 | -1 | ---|---|---|---| California | 722 | 722 | 0 | ---|---|---|---| Colorado | 731 | 731 | 0 | ---|---|---|---| Connecticut | 726 | 726 | 0 | ---|---|---|---| Delaware | 715 | 714 | -1 | ---|---|---|---| District of Columbia | 715 | 715 | 0 | ---|---|---|---| Florida | 708 | 707 | -1 | ---|---|---|---| Georgia | 695 | 695 | 0 | ---|---|---|---| Hawaii | 732 | 732 | 0 | ---|---|---|---| Idaho | 729 | 730 | +1 | ---|---|---|---| Illinois | 720 | 720 | 0 | ---|---|---|---| Indiana | 713 | 712 | -1 | ---|---|---|---| Iowa | 730 | 730 | 0 | ---|---|---|---| Kansas | 723 | 722 | -1 |
