---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/how-to-pay-off-credit-card-debt/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:09.482731+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
worth it. If you have multiple balances, consolidating them with a balance transfer can also simplify your monthly payments. Keep in mind, though, that there's no guarantee you'll get a high enough credit limit on the new card to cover the amount you want to pay off, and maxing out the balance transfer card could result in your credit score going down, at least temporarily, until you can pay down the debt and reduce your credit utilization. Tip: Continue to make payments on your old credit card until the balance transfer is complete. 4. Debt Consolidation Loan A debt consolidation loan is a personal loan you use to pay off credit card debt. Unlike credit cards, personal loans have a set repayment schedule and fixed monthly payments. Debt consolidation loans can help you secure a lower interest rate and simplify your repayment process by replacing multiple monthly payments with just one. Personal loans have lower interest rates than credit cards on average, but your rate will depend on your credit score and other factors. If your credit is fair or poor, the rate you qualify for may be too high to make it worth it. Fortunately, many lenders allow you to get prequalified and review rate offers before you apply, which involves a soft credit check that doesn't hurt your credit scores. If you're considering a personal loan to pay off debt, make sure the new monthly payment fits within your budget. If it's too high, it may be difficult to keep up, and a missed payment could hurt your credit. You also need to commit to not running up balances on those cards againâotherwise, you could end up in worse shape than when you took out the loan. Finally, try to avoid lenders that charge an origination fee. Compare personal loan rates Find APRs from 4.99% to 35.99% and flexible terms of 12 to 120 months. Loan amounts range from $1,000 up to $250,000, with funding available the same day or up to 7 days. Offers from our partners View all of our Best Personal Loans for 2026 to see what youâre likely to qualify for, and the rates and terms you might get. 5. Borrow Money From Family If you have parents or other family members who can help, consider asking for a short-term loan or assistance with monthly payments. Hopefully whoever you borrow from can give you a substantial enough loan to pay off a majority of your debt. And they may even let you borrow money without paying them any interest or extra money. Tip: Because borrowing from loved ones can complicate a relationship, make sure to create an official loan agreement and draw up terms you can both agree on. Then, make it a goal to pay back the loan on time or even early to maintain a good relationship. 6. Cut Back on Discretionary Spending At first glance, you may not be sure where you can cut back in your budget. But with a deeper dive, you might be able to find some opportunities with your discretionary spending, or money used for nonessential expenses. Start with your recurring bills, such as monthly payments for entertainment. Example: If you have multiple streaming services but don't use one very often, consider cutting it temporarily until you've paid off your debt. In addition to regular bills, understand how you spend your money every day. If you tend to go out for lunch during the week, for example, bringing food from home can free up some cash flow. Also look at your entertainment expenses, clothing budget, travel costs and other areas where you may be able to shift some money toward credit card payoff. You don't necessarily need to change your lifestyle permanently, but making small, temporary changes now can put you in a better financial position in
