---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/loans/articles/-/learn/home-equity-loans-vs-home-equity-lines-of-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:32.306114+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
intend to borrow. Lenders will generally consider the following factors when reviewing your application: Home equity. You need to have a certain amount of equity established in your home before you can use it to secure a loan. Most lenders require that you have already paid off at least 15% to 20% of your home's total value to qualify. The lender appraises your home's market value as part of the application process, which typically comes at your expense. - Debt-to-income ratio. Your debt-to-income (DTI) ratio may also help determine whether you qualify. Your DTI ratio is calculated by dividing your total monthly debt payments by your gross monthly income. While qualifying DTIs vary depending on the lender, the general rule of thumb is that your debt should be less than 43% of your total monthly income. To prove you have income, be sure to have recent paystubs, W-2 forms, and tax documents ready when you discuss a home equity loan with your lender. - Credit history. You need to have fairly good credit in order to qualify for most home equity loans. Many lenders will only accept credit scores of 700 or above, while some may accept credit scores in the mid-600s. Having high credit scores is crucial for securing a better interest rate on your home equity loan. - Advantages and disadvantages of home equity loans Home equity loans can be a great solution for some borrowers and offer certain advantages over other types of loans: Home equity loans may offer lower interest rates and access to larger funds. A home equity loan often comes with a lower interest rate than other loans since your home is secured as collateral. This type of financing also typically offers more money all at once than personal loans or credit cards, which may be useful if you only need to make a one-time large purchase. - There may be tax perks. If you're using the loan to make home improvements, you may be able to deduct the interest if you itemize your income taxes. - Home equity loans may offer a greater degree of flexibility than other loans. Home equity loans can be used for anything, from financing a car to going on vacation. This differs from some other loans that are earmarked for a specific purpose. - However, home equity loans aren't right for everyone. It's important to be aware of the risks associated with these types of loans as well: Your home is the collateral for the loan. Using your residence to secure the loan is inherently risky. Sudden life changes, such as the loss of a job or a medical emergency, could jeopardize your ability to repay what you've borrowed. If you default on a payment, the lender may be able to take your home. - The value of your home could decline over time. If your home's total value decreases due to the volatility of the real estate market, you may end up owing more than what your home is actually worth. This scenario is often referred to as being “underwater” or “upside-down” on your mortgage. - You will face closing costs. Since home equity loans are considered a second mortgage, there may be hefty closing costs and other fees involved, just like with your primary mortgage. These costs, which typically range from 2% to 5% of the total loan amount, can add up, making the entire process expensive. - Another option: a home equity line of credit (HELOC) What is a HELOC Loan? A HELOC, though also secured by your home, works differently than a home equity loan. In this type of financing, a homeowner applies for an open line of credit and then can borrow up to a fixed amount on an as-needed basis. You only pay interest on the amount borrowed. Typically, a HELOC will
