---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/supct/cert/23-719
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:10:47.159006+00:00
last_updated: Wed, 14 Jan 2026 15:53:40 GMT
---
state case was reopened and the Colorado Republican State Central Committee (“CRSCC”) also intervened. The Denver District Court ruled that the case would proceed with a five-day trial. After trial, the Denver District Court found by clear and convincing evidence that Trump had engaged in an insurrection. However, the court declined to exclude Trump from the ballot, reasoning that the Disqualification Clause of Section Three of the Fourteenth Amendment, which disqualifies individuals from office who have previously “engaged in insurrection,” only applies to a candidate for an “office . . . under the United States” who has previously served as “an officer of the United States.” The court ruled that the Presidency is not such an “office.” Trump and the electors sought review of the district court opinion in the Supreme Court of the State of Colorado. The Colorado Supreme Court upheld the district court’s finding that Trump engaged in insurrection but overruled the district court’s interpretation of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Colorado Supreme Court found that Trump was disqualified from the Presidency under Section Three of the Fourteenth Amendment. Accordingly, the Colorado Supreme Court ruled that Trump should be excluded from Colorado’s 2024 presidential primary ballot because listing a disqualified candidate on the ballot would be a “wrongful act” under Section 1-1-113(1) of the Colorado Election Code. Trump appealed to the United States Supreme Court on January 3rd, 2024. On January 5th, 2024, the Supreme Court granted certiorari and set oral argument for February 8th, 2024. Analysis DEFINITION OF OFFICER UNDER SECTION THREE OF THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT Trump argues that the President is not an “officer” within the meaning of Section Three of the Fourteenth Amendment. Trump asserts that the phrase “officers of the United States,” as used in other constitutional clauses such as the Appointments Clause, Commissions Clause, and Impeachment Clause, establishes that the President is not an “officer” because each of these clauses lists the Presidency and “officers of the United States” as separate categories. Trump further argues that the Supreme Court’s precedent in Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board established that “officers of the United States” are only appointed, never elected. . Additionally, Trump contends that Section Three only applies to those who have violated an oath to “support” the Constitution, as required for members of Congress under Article VI; because the President only swears to “preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution,” Trump reasons that the President is exempt. Trump contends that even if the Presidency is an “office” as the term is colloquially understood, that does not necessarily mean that the President is an “officer of the United States.” Anderson counters that the Presidency is an “office” under the United States. Anderson asserts that the Constitution explicitly refers to the Presidency as an “office” and that, because the President is both the head of the Executive Branch and the Commander-in-Chief, the Presidency qualifies as both a “civil” and “military” office. Further, Anderson argues that the phrase “under the United States” is used to distinguish between State and federal offices in the Constitution. Anderson posits that her interpretation accords with the original public meaning of Section Three as reflected in contemporaneous congressional debates and executive and judicial opinions.Anderson further contends that the President is an “officer of the United States” because any federal officeholder is an “officer of the United States” and that the Appointments, Commissions, and Impeachment Clauses were never meant to define “officer.” Anderson also argues that Section Three provides a parallel structure between barred individuals and the offices they cannot occupy which implies that, if the Presidency is an office, then the President is an officer. Finally, Anderson argues that the difference between the Congressional and Presidential oaths of office is of no consequence because to “defend” the Constitution is to “support” it as well. “ENGAGE IN INSURRECTION” AND THE
