---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/legal-library/browse/cooperation-agreements
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:56:20.952605+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 09 Feb 2026 07:56:17 GMT
---
An official website of the United States government Here’s how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. We enforce federal competition and consumer protection laws that prevent anticompetitive, deceptive, and unfair business practices. View Enforcement Find legal resources and guidance to understand your business responsibilities and comply with the law. Browse legal resources View all Competition Matters Blog posts We work to advance government policies that protect consumers and promote competition. View Policy View all Technology Blog posts Learn more about your rights as a consumer and how to spot and avoid scams. Find the resources you need to understand how consumer protection law impacts your business. Visit militaryconsumer.gov Visit consumer.gov Visit Competition Counts Competition Guidance View News and Events View more Events Sign up for the latest news Learn about the FTC's notable video game cases and what our agency is doing to keep the public safe. Explore refund statistics including where refunds were sent and the dollar amounts refunded with this visualization. Our mission is protecting the public from deceptive or unfair business practices and from unfair methods of competition through law enforcement, advocacy, research, and education. Learn more about the FTC Andrew N. Ferguson is Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission. Chairman Andrew N. Ferguson Enter Search Term(s): Looking for legal documents or records? Search the Legal Library instead. All FTC cooperation agreements can be classified as either U.S. interagency agreements or international agreements.
