---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/help/article-list/-/h/c/products/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:18.380061+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
freeze with a lock on my Equifax credit report? Where can I see the products I've previously ordered? Are there any special product limits during the free trial period? What’s included in the free trial? What is the status of my product purchase? How does the Family Plan work for minors? What is a masked alert in the Family Plan product? How does Family Plan help me to protect my minor child’s identity? Can a minor child access the Family Plan product? How long can I access/view my products? How secure is the information I provide to Equifax.com? How do I enable text alerts with my Equifax product? Why haven't I received a credit monitoring alert for my recent credit activity? Does an alert impact my credit scores? How do I opt out of pre-screened credit offers? Why am I receiving alerts if I did not subscribe to an Equifax product? How do I know when my free trial expires? When will I begin to be charged for my subscription? I received a credit report alert from one or two of the nationwide credit bureaus, but not all three. Why did this occur? I'm paying for an existing Equifax product. Can I combine Lock & Alert with my other product? When should I unlock my Equifax credit report? Can I use Lock & Alert to lock my credit report with the other two nationwide credit bureaus? I'm paying for an existing Equifax product. Can I still sign up for Lock & Alert? If I have a security freeze on my TransUnion or Experian credit report, can I still sign up for Lock & Alert? Can I enroll my child in Lock & Alert? Can I sign up for Lock & Alert with a shared email address? How do I cancel Lock & Alert? Can Equifax assist consumers who are deaf or hard of hearing? Am I better off placing a fraud alert, requesting a security freeze, or obtaining a credit report lock? Who can view my Equifax credit report if I have a security freeze or credit report lock? If I locked or unlocked my Equifax credit report with another product, what will I see when I sign in to Lock & Alert? How do I deactivate the Automatic Fraud Alert feature? I need help. How can I contact Equifax? Do any Equifax products provide access to a free credit report? What is your product refund policy? What is your product cancellation policy?
