---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/cheapest-car-insurance/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:53.138082+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:09 GMT
---
Cheapest Car Insurance in the US for 2026 Quick Answer The cheapest car insurance in the U.S. is the minimum coverage policy from Liberty Mutual, at $1,251 annually or $104 per month. The cheapest full coverage car insurance in the U.S. is from Travelers and costs $1,803 annually or $150 per month. However, your driving record, age, location and more can all affect the cost of your auto insurance. The cheapest car insurance in the U.S. is the minimum coverage policy from Liberty Mutual, at $1,251 annually or $104 per month, according to Experian data from December 2025 and based on policies quoted through our automotive insurance marketplace. On average, minimum coverage auto insurance sold in the U.S. costs $1,552 annually or $129 per month. The cheapest full coverage car insurance in the U.S. is offered by Travelers and costs $1,803 annually or $150 per month. On average, full coverage car insurance in the U.S. costs $2,902 annually or $242 per month. Minimum coverage car insurance provides enough protection to meet your state's basic liability insurance requirements. For more protection, you can buy full coverage car insurance, which includes comprehensive and collision coverage. If your vehicle is leased or financed, you are usually required to carry full coverage on your vehicle until your lease term ends or the vehicle is paid off. The cost of your car insurance can vary depending on several factors: Your age (younger drivers typically pay more for car insurance) - Your driving record (incidents and violations usually increase your rates) - Your annual mileage (driving more can mean higher rates) - The type and amount of coverage you buy - As a result, although our data on the cheapest car insurance in the U.S. can serve as a good general guideline, your rates may be higher or lower. Before purchasing an auto insurance policy, take the time to compare insurance quotes from several insurers. Cheapest Minimum Coverage Car Insurance in the U.S. Drivers in most states are required to carry a minimum amount of liability coverage that varies from state to state. Liability coverage includes bodily injury liability, which helps cover the cost if you injure someone in an accident, and property damage liability, which pays for damages you cause to someone's vehicle or property. Purchasing only the minimum liability insurance can keep your auto insurance costs down, but might not offer enough protection in case of an accident. For instance, Arizona's minimum insurance requirements are $25,000 per person and $50,000 per accident in bodily injury coverage and $15,000 per accident in property damage coverage. Since an accident could cost much more, insurance professionals typically recommend buying coverage of at least $100,000 per person and $300,000 per accident for bodily injuries and $100,000 for property damage. Learn more: How Much Car Insurance Do I Need? The table below shows the carriers offering the cheapest minimum coverage auto insurance policies in the U.S. Carrier | Annual Cost | Monthly Cost | ---|---|---| Liberty Mutual | $1,251 | $104 | ---|---|---| Mercury | $1,381 | $115 | ---|---|---| Root | $1,398 | $116 | ---|---|---| SAFECO | $1,486 | $124 | ---|---|---| AAA Insurance | $1,691 | $141 | ---|---|---| Source: Experian data as of December 2025 Note: Costs above represent insurance quotes, not policy premiums Cheapest Full Coverage Car Insurance in the U.S. Full coverage auto insurance adds comprehensive and collision coverage to your liability insurance. States don't require full coverage insurance, but most lenders or lessors require it if your car is leased or financed. Collision coverage pays to repair or replace your car if it's damaged due to a collision with another car, object or animal. - Comprehensive coverage pays to repair or replace your car if it's damaged by something other than driving, such as hail, a falling tree, vandalism or theft. -
