---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/credit/score/articles/-/learn/what-is-a-rapid-rescore/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:45.881106+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
different lenders use different scoring formulas to calculate your credit scores. What is the timeline for a rapid rescore? Rapid rescoring typically takes three to five business days to complete, although the exact timeframe will depend on your unique situation. How to know if a rapid rescore is right for you? A rapid rescore can be beneficial if a slight boost in your credit scores would help you get better terms on a loan, secure a lower interest rate or simply move into the minimum credit score range for approval. If you're able to pay off debt or correct an error on your credit reports that might lead to an increase in your credit scores, rapid rescoring can save you time and potentially money in the long run. However, it's important to understand that rapid rescoring is generally only helpful if someone is actively evaluating your credit scores, such as when you apply for a loan. A rapid rescore also can't undo a credit history full of late payments, delinquent accounts and other damaging behavior. The only way to see your credit scores improve from previous mistakes is to build up a positive credit history. This can take months or even years of good credit habits to achieve and maintain. Before you ask your lender to initiate a rapid rescore, take your entire financial situation into account and make sure there are no negative surprises that await. For example, a rapid rescore might reveal a new delinquent payment or another issue that could actually lower your credit scores. A rapid rescore may be a great option if you're in between credit score ranges and higher scores would help you get better terms on a loan, such as a mortgage or auto loan. But keep in mind that there's no guarantee that a rapid rescore will boost your credit scores, so weigh your options before jumping into the rescoring process. Sign up for a credit monitoring & ID theft protection product today! For $19.95 per month, you can know where you stand with access to your 3-bureau credit report. Sign up for Equifax CompleteTM Premier today!
