---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/protection/creditlock/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:55.243403+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 21:35:43 GMT
---
anti-fraud habits,Â safeguarding your personal informationÂ and taking advantage ofÂ dark web surveillance. Here are some ways you can protect against identity theft and secure your credit: Donât fall for phishing scams. Criminals use social engineering techniques to trick you into providing them with sensitive information, such as your credit card information or your Social Security number. To resist their attempts, learn aboutÂ common scamsÂ andÂ how to avoid getting phished. - Set strong passwords. Create unique,Â strong passwordsÂ for each of your accounts. A password manager can help you keep track of your passwords. Also, consider signing up forÂ multifactor authentication (MFA)Â to add an extra layer of security against hackers. - Monitor your accounts. Regularly check your financial statements for any signs of fraud. Consider signing up forÂ free credit monitoring through Experian to get alerts to activity on your credit report. If you notice any information you believe is fraudulent or incorrect, you have the right toÂ file a dispute. - If your credit file is unlocked, it means that new creditors will be able to process applications for credit. Unlocking your credit file is a good idea if youâre considering applying for a new credit card or loan soon. On the other hand, if you donât plan to take out new credit in the near future, locking your credit file can prevent an identity thief from applying for credit in your name because potential lenders will be blocked from checking your credit. If you cancel your premium membership while your credit is locked, your credit file will be unlocked at the end of the billing period. Thatâs because CreditLock is a feature of a premium account. That said, there are options available through a free Experian account, too. You always have the right to freeze your credit for free, which blocks potential lenders from accessing your report as a proactive measure against fraud. Learn more about protecting your credit Are There Any Downsides to Freezing Your Credit? 3 min â¢ Oct 31, 2020 Security FreezeHow to Unfreeze Your Credit Report at All 3 Credit Bureaus 4 min â¢ Oct 10, 2025 Security FreezeHow to Check if My Credit Report Is Frozen 3 min â¢ Sep 4, 2025 Credit AdviceDoes Freezing Your Credit File Affect Other Accounts 3 min â¢ Jan 31, 2022 Security FreezeCredit Freeze and Credit Lock: Whatâs The Difference? 6 min â¢ Jul 23, 2024 Security FreezeHow to Freeze Your Credit at All 3 Credit Bureaus 7 min â¢ Sep 22, 2025 Security Freeze
