---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-personal-loans-8761582
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:29.905651+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
648 branches in the U.S. In a $70 billion deal, Citicorp and Travelers Group merged in 1998 to form Citigroup. Additional Details Minimum Credit Score No stated minimum Origination Fees None Membership Requirement None; existing customers can borrow up to $50,000 Available Discounts 0.50% autopay; 0.25% for Citigold and Citi Priority customers Read the Full Citibank Personal Loans Review Best for Small Loan Amounts : Lake Michigan Credit Union Investopedia's Rating 3.7 out of 5 stars APR Range: 9.99% - 18.00% Loan Amount: $250 - $25,000 Loan Terms: 1 month - 60 months Check Rates (opens in a new tab) On Investopedia Why We Chose It A local credit union is your best bet for an affordable personal loan. This is especially true if you want a loan under $1,000. We chose Lake Michigan Credit Union as the Best for Small Loan Amounts because its minimum of $250 is the lowest in our database of 59 lenders, but plenty of credit unions have minimums of $300 or $500. Pros & Cons Pros Small loan amounts No origination fees Credit life and disability insurance available Option to skip a monthly payment for $25 Cons No pre-qualification Membership required Overview We chose LMCU as Best for Small Loans because of its $250 minimum. However, many credit unions offer loans under $1,000 and even under $500, so you have plenty of options. You won’t pay an origination fee on a loan from LMCU. Because it is a federal credit union, you won’t pay more than 18% interest. If something unexpected happens, you can skip a monthly payment (for a $25 fee), up to twice a year. The minimum credit score of 650 means LMCU loans are available to people with “fair” credit. You can also apply with a co-borrower. Unfortunately, LMCU does not offer pre-qualification; you must complete an application to see what rates and terms you are approved for. That means a slight negative hit to your credit score. And because it’s a credit union, you need to become a member to borrow. If you don’t meet LMCU’s affiliate or regional qualifications, you can join by donating $5 to the ALS Foundation. LMCU was founded in 1933. Today, it has over $14 billion in assets and more than 600,000 members. It’s the largest financial institution headquartered in West Michigan. Additional Details Minimum Credit Score 650 Origination Fees None Membership Requirement Yes Available Discounts None Read the Full Lake Michigan Credit Union Personal Loans Review Best for Military Members : Navy Federal Credit Union Investopedia's Rating 4.1 out of 5 stars APR Range: 8.74% - 18.00% Loan Amount: $250 - $50,000 Loan Terms: 6 months - 180 months Check Rates (opens in a new tab) On Investopedia Why We Chose It With Navy Federal Credit Union, eligible service members and their families qualify for personal loans with no origination fees, low rates, and same-day funding. You can borrow up to $50,000, and if you’re borrowing for a home improvement, you will have up to 180 months (15 years) to repay it. Pros & Cons Pros Same-day funding Strong customer-service ratings Wide range of loan amounts and terms Allows co-borrowers Cons Membership restrictions Doesn’t offer pre-qualification No online application for some loan types Overview Navy Federal Credit Union’s personal loans have a lot to offer. Borrowers can choose from a wide range of loan amounts and terms and rates start at 8.74% and won’t exceed 18%. Plus, there are no origination fees. If you’re borrowing at least $30,000 for a home improvement, you can take up to 180 months to pay it off. Just be aware that late payments will result in a $29 late payment fee. Navy Federal earned the second-highest score in the 2024 J.D. Power Consumer Lending Satisfaction Study and a Combined Consumer Review rating of 4.5 (out of 5). This
