---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/help/article-list/-/h/c/reports-scores/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:30.286449+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Hello, how can we help? I have information on my Equifax credit report that is a result of being a victim of human trafficking. What can I do? How are credit scores calculated? Why do credit scores change? How can I view my Equifax credit reports from the past? Why is one of my accounts showing up more than once on my Equifax credit report? Why are accounts included in a bankruptcy still reported on my Equifax credit report? Why is an account balance on my Equifax credit report incorrect? Why aren't all my accounts listed on my Equifax credit report? Why is my last reported employment out of date on my Equifax credit report? Will my spouse's name and information appear on my credit file? Are a credit report and a credit score the same thing? What is a credit report? How do I request a free credit report from AnnualCreditReport.com as a legal guardian? What is a mixed credit file? How do credit report errors happen? How are my credit reports affected when my spouse dies? What is a co-signer? What is in my Equifax credit file that's preventing me from obtaining credit? What information may be included on my Equifax credit report? Can I get my Equifax® credit report in Braille, large print or audio CD? What steps can I take if I have been mistakenly reported as deceased on my credit reports? What is a credit report confirmation number? What is a credit score? What types of credit score monitoring alerts can I receive? How does monitoring my credit reports help protect my identity? What is the difference between credit scores from Equifax and credit scores from FICO? How do I customize my credit score monitoring alerts? Can I lock my Equifax credit report if I have a security freeze? How do I redeem a gift certificate or promotion code? Why don't I see the same information on a credit report from the other nationwide credit bureaus? What have the Nationwide Credit Reporting Agencies (NCRAs) changed with respect to medical collection debt on consumer credit files? Why are the credit bureaus removing paid medical collections debt from credit reports? How will my credit score be impacted by the changes in medical collection debt reporting? I have medical debt that was sent to a collection agency - does that appear on my credit reports? When you remove the debt will you send an updated copy of my credit report? When it comes to credit scores, will I be penalized for shopping around for the best interest rate? What are the most common factors that can negatively impact credit scores? Why do I have different credit scores? What are the Equifax credit score ranges? Where can I see the products I've previously ordered? How do lenders use credit scores? How do I obtain a credit report for a deceased person? Who can see my Equifax credit report? How do I know if I have a U.S. credit file if I am a resident from another country? How long can I access/view my products? How secure is the information I provide to Equifax.com? Does placing a fraud alert hurt my credit scores? I received a credit report alert from one or two of the nationwide credit bureaus, but not all three. Why did this occur? How does credit reporting work? Can Equifax assist consumers who are deaf or hard of hearing? Am I better off placing a fraud alert, requesting a security freeze, or obtaining a credit report lock? Who can view my Equifax credit report if I have a security freeze or credit report lock? Can I add a statement to my Equifax credit report? What can I do if I believe my credit file has been mixed with someone else's? How can I prevent errors on my
