---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/debit-cards-that-offer-cash-back-rewards/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:19.614101+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:22 GMT
---
a cash back debit card instead of a rewards credit card, it's important to understand the main differences. Here are some factors to keep in mind: Rewards rates: Cash back credit cards typically offer better rewards rates compared to rewards debit cards. You may also enjoy a welcome bonus as a new credit card holder. - Other perks: Cash back credit cards may also offer other benefits, such as introductory 0% APR promotions, flexible redemption options and perks with certain merchants. With a cash back debit card, you may enjoy ATM fee reimbursements, reduced fees and other benefits. - Credit score: There are cash back credit cards available to borrowers across the credit spectrum, but the best typically require good credit or better. However, you can use a cash back credit card to build credit with responsible use. In contrast, debit cards don't require a credit check when you open an account, but they also can't help you build credit. - Fraud protection: Both credit and debit cards offer fraud protection in the event that someone steals your card information. However, credit card issuers typically offer more protection than banks. Additionally, if someone does use your card, you'd only have to worry about them draining your checking account with a debit card. - Interest charges: If you pay your credit card bill on time and in full every month, you don't have to worry about interest charges. However, carrying a balance can be expensive. On the flip side, cash back debit cards never charge interest. - As you consider both the pros and cons of each option, you'll have an easier time determining which one is the better option for you. Check Your Credit if Applying for a Credit Card You typically don't have to worry about a credit check when opening a checking account. But if you're thinking of applying for a cash back credit card, check your credit score before you do so. With Experian, you can be paired with credit cards matched to your credit profile. The best cash back credit cards tend to require a FICOÂ® ScoreÎ of 670 or higher. Meeting that threshold doesn't guarantee approval, though. So if you're right at that level or below it, consider working on improving your credit before you apply. In the meantime, you can still earn cash back through a debit card. Earn more with a high-yield savings account Make your money work harder with a high-yield savings accountâearn higher returns with easy access to your funds. Compare accountsAbout the author Ben Luthi has worked in financial planning, banking and auto finance, and writes about all aspects of money. His work has appeared in Time, Success, USA Today, Credit Karma, NerdWallet, Wirecutter and more. Read more from Ben
