---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/open-government/information-quality-guidelines/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:35.611334+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
In addition, the guidelines do not apply to information disseminated in the following contexts: Dissemination of information limited to government employees or agency contractors or grantees; - Dissemination of information intended to be limited to intra-or inter-agency use or sharing of government information; - Correspondence with individual persons, archival records, public filings, subpoenas or adjudicative processes; - Response to requests for agency records under the Freedom of Information Act, or other similar laws. - Process Information review Information quality is integral to every step of the development of information, from its creation through its collection, maintenance, and dissemination. Organizational components of Bureau are expected to develop processes for reviewing the quality, including the objectivity, utility, and integrity, of information before it is disseminated. The processes should substantiate the quality of the information disseminated through documentation or other means appropriate to the information. The Bureau will disseminate information that meets high standards as confirmed by stringent internal review and approval processes. The Bureau will produce information products that are presented in an unbiased, clear, complete, and well-documented manner. It will utilize highly reliable review sources for corroboration of information, and will seek public comment as appropriate. Specialized surveys and peer reviews will utilize methodologies that are consistent with generally accepted industry standards for all aspects of survey design and implementation. The Bureau will make both original and supporting data and the source of the data available to the public when appropriate. The Bureau will utilize transparent methods consistent with its obligation to protect proprietary or confidential information. The Bureau will subject all information to editing and review. The Bureau will regularly review information output products to ensure their current utility to the public. Information collection Bureau adheres to OMB’s Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) clearance process to improve the quality of information that the Bureau collects and disseminates to the public. The PRA requires the Bureau to demonstrate the “practical utility” of a proposed collection of information that Bureau plans to disseminate. Bureau will also demonstrate in PRA clearance submissions to OMB that the proposed collection of information will result in information that will be collected, maintained, and used in a way consistent with the OMB and Bureau information quality guidelines. Administrative complaint mechanism Any individual who believes that information disseminated by the Bureau does not comply with OMB or Bureau guidelines may seek correction of the information by filing a “Section 515 Complaint” with the Bureau. The process for filing a complaint is intended to be flexible, appropriate to the nature and timeliness of the disseminated information, and incorporated into the Bureaus’ information resources management and administrative practices. Complaint process. A complaint may be submitted by mail, personal delivery, electronic mail, or fax using the following contact information: - Mail: Chief Information Office Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Information Quality Program 1700 G Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20552 Email: CFPB_IQ_Submissions@cfpb.gov The request for correction must include:A statement that the individual is submitting a complaint pursuant to section 515 of Public Law 106-554; - Contact information, including name, mailing address, telephone and email address, and the name of any organization with which the individual is affiliated; - Identification and description of the information or data the individual is seeking to have corrected, including, for example, the number or title of the document(s) in which the information appears, the date of release, or the URL of the web page on which the information was disseminated by the Bureau; - A statement of the reasons for believing that the information or data is in error, including a statement of what the individual believes the correct information or data to be and how the information should be corrected; - A statement of how the disseminated information affects the individual. - - Privacy policy: The Bureau is authorized to collect the information provided under Section 515, 44
