---
source_url: https://www.usa.gov/travel-money
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:59.856575+00:00
last_updated: Sat, 07 Feb 2026 01:13:55 GMT
---
How much money can you bring into and out of the U.S.? There is a limit on how much undeclared money you can bring into and out of the U.S. Find out how much, how to declare it, and what the penalties are if you do not report it. How much money do you have to declare when you travel to or from the U.S.? If you are traveling with an excess of $10,000, you must report it to a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer when you enter or exit the U.S. But there is no limit to the amount of money you can travel with. Currency and monetary instruments that are subject to this rule include U.S. and foreign: Paper money and coins - Travelersâ checks - Cashierâs checks - Promissory notes - Money orders - Learn how the U.S. government defines these currency and monetary instruments. How to report money when you travel To report to CBP that you are bringing more than $10,000 in currency or money instruments into or out of the U.S., do one of the following: Fill out the Currency Reporting Form (FinCen 105) online - Fill out and print Form FinCen 105 before you travel and present it to a CBP officer - Ask a CBP officer for a paper copy and fill it out at customs - If you are an international traveler entering the U.S., you must declare what currency or monetary instruments you have on CBP Form 6059B. This is in addition to declaring it on Form FinCen 105. Learn more about reporting money when you travel, including how to do it if you are submitting a joint or family declaration. What happens if you do not declare that you are carrying more than $10,000? If you fail to report to CBP that you are bringing more than $10,000 through customs or do so fraudulently, the penalties may include: Confiscation of all currency or monetary instruments - A fine of up to $500,000 - Up to 10 years of imprisonment - LAST UPDATED: November 13, 2025 Have a question? Ask a real person any government-related question for free. They will get you the answer or let you know where to find it.
