---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/office-civil-rights/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:51:54.584146+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Office of Civil Rights The Office of Civil Rights works to ensure that the CFPB continues to meet its ongoing commitment to equal opportunity for its employees, applicants for employment at CFPB, and the members of the public with disabilities seeking equal access to CFPB programs and activities. The mission of the Office of Civil Rights is to: Ensure the CFPB complies with federal laws related to equal opportunity and access; - Provide a neutral forum for the discussion, investigation and resolution of certain EEO matters; and - Integrate EEO into the CFPB’s everyday business. - Our vision is to ensure that the CFPB workplace is one where everyone is treated with dignity and respect so that CFPB can effectively conduct its business. Our work EEO policy and reports The CFPB’s employees are its most important resource. Employees come from diverse backgrounds and work together to carry out the mission of protecting consumers. No FEAR Act The No FEAR Act is intended to increase the accountability of federal agencies for acts of discrimination or retaliation against employees, former employees, and applicants. It requires the CFPB to post a notice of rights and certain equal employment opportunity data. Whistleblowers Federal employees and applicants are protected against retaliation for making whistleblower disclosures. Raise an EEO Issue If you are a CFPB employee, former CFPB employee, or applicant for employment at CFPB and believe you have been illegally discriminated against, you can contact the Office of Civil Rights for help. Reasonable accommodation for persons with disabilities We encourage persons with disabilities to work at the CFPB and we provide reasonable accommodation to applicants and employees with disabilities consistent with the Rehabilitation Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act. Page last modified @
