---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/best-crypto-exchanges-5071855
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:08:08.957576+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
trading through its copy-trading feature BitMart Academy provides excellent educational resources Cons Does not display its security infrastructure Complex fee structure Only supports crypto deposits to fund account Overview BitMart, founded in 2017 and headquartered in New York, N.Y., is our top choice for altcoins due to its accessibility to over 1,700 tradable cryptocurrencies. While still offering access to the most important coins on the market, such as Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Solana, it provides other coins that may be difficult to find on other exchanges. It's important to note that cryptocurrency poses significant risks even with established digital coins. Smaller, less established coins pose even more risks, with liquidity and market manipulation being a serious concern for crypto holders. BitMart also offers its users an interesting way to trade cryptocurrency: copy trading. BitMart users can access statistics for its top traders and see metrics such as return on investment (ROI) for cryptos they trade, along with their trading history and current trade positions. However, traders should remember that past success does not automatically lead to future gains and should proceed cautiously. While BitMart has advanced charting capabilities, it’s only for futures trading. In addition, BitMart does not offer some of the order types that certain competitors offer. To date, BitMart only provides two order types: market and limit orders. Through BitMart Academy, the exchange offers excellent educational resources covering a range of topics, from basic knowledge to more complex subjects. While it provides a robust selection of crypto, there are some drawbacks. Its fee structure is complex to understand, but customers with higher account balances have better, more competitive fees. Depending on your account balance, your maker fees can range from 0.015% to 0.6% and your taker fees can range from 0.02% to 0.6%. In addition, the only way to fund a new account is to transfer crypto from a wallet or another exchange. BitMart claims to have an advanced risk control system with multi-signature technologies and a hybrid hot and cold wallet storage. Unlike some competitors, BitMart does not reveal its security infrastructure for users' accounts. For instance, it does not publicly state its security certifications or disclose whether it subjects itself to third-party audits. We can confirm that the company equips users with multifactor authentication. Read the full BitMart review. Why You Should Trust Us Investopedia launched in 1999, and since 2020, we have independently researched 14 cryptocurrency exchanges currently operating in the industry. To choose the best cryptocurrency, we analyzed nearly 450 key data points, including fees, available cryptocurrencies, trading features, security standards, and more, to bring together the list presented to you now. This way, readers interested in opening an account with a crypto exchange can choose the best company that will fit their financial needs and standards. How We Picked the Best Cryptocurrency Exchanges and Apps Investopedia's in-house team of researchers collected nearly 450 data points through online research of 14 leading cryptocurrency exchange provider websites. To fill in any gaps, our research team reached out to the individual exchanges. In some instances, our researchers did much deeper online research to get the information they needed to complete the data collection. The data collection process spanned from Feb. 7, 2025 to Feb 11, 2025. We then developed a proprietary model that scored each company to rate its performance across four major categories and 29 weighted criteria to find the best cryptocurrency exchange companies. The score for each company’s overall star rating is a weighted average of the criteria in the following categories: Trading Features: 30%Fees: 28%Security: 21%Transparency: 21% Through our research, Investopedia has provided you with a list of the best crypto exchanges, guided by data-driven analysis and an unbiased and fair approach to helping readers find the best crypto exchange. Read our full detailed methodology. Everything You Need to Know About Cryptocurrency Exchanges Investopedia
