---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/improving-credit/building-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:15.887870+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
leave you worse off than before. Here are four strategies for responsibly building good credit using a credit card. Open Your First Credit Card Applying for your first credit card can feel daunting, but knowing your options can help make the process go more smoothly. Here are some to compare: Secured credit card: Secured credit cards are designed for people with poor credit and limited or no credit histories. They require an upfront security depositâoften a minimum of $200âthat's usually equal to your credit limit. The best secured cards have no annual fees, and some even offer rewards. With responsible use, you may also be able to get your deposit back without needing to close your account. - Student credit card: If you're a college student, a student credit card may be better than a secured card because it doesn't require a deposit. Student credit cards may also offer rewards and other perks to encourage you to develop good credit habits. - Hybrid card: Debit-credit hybrid cards are relatively new, but they can provide a good opportunity to build credit. They typically don't require a credit check to get approved, and while some require a security deposit, you'll typically get more flexibility compared to a traditional secured card. - Once you have your first card, use it to make small everyday purchases that you can easily afford. Pay your balance in full each month to start building a history of on-time payments, showing lenders that you're a responsible borrower. Learn more: An Essential Guide to Your First Credit Card Become an Authorized User If you're having trouble qualifying for a credit card on your own, becoming an authorized user could be a helpful solution. As an authorized user, you'll be added to an existing account and be given your own card to use. The account's positive payment history is then added to your credit report and factored into your credit scores. However, since you're not responsible for managing the account and making payments, the degree to which it can help your creditworthiness is limited. Learn more: Will Being an Authorized User Help My Credit? Pay Your Bills on Time If you already have a credit card, there are ways you can make sure you're getting the most benefit out of itâstarting with making on-time payments. Payment history is the most important factor of your credit score, making up 35% of FICOÂ® ScoresÎ. Therefore, it's essential to pay all of your credit card bills on time. To have positive payments added to your credit report, you'll need to make at least your minimum payment by your due date. That said, it's best to pay your bill in full to avoid potential interest charges. Learn more: What Happens if You Only Pay the Minimum on Your Credit Card? Maintain a Low Credit Utilization Rate Another key credit score factor is credit card utilization rate, which is the ratio of your card balances to your credit limits. Maintaining a low credit utilization rate is important when your goal is to build your credit. When your credit utilization nears and climbs above 30%, the more harm it can do to your scores. As a general guideline, the lower your credit utilization, the better. So if you have a $10,000 credit limit, for example, make sure your balance stays well under $3,000. Request a Credit Limit Increase If you've had your card for several months or longer, consider requesting a credit limit increase. Doing so could help improve your credit utilization rate. Note that card issuers may not approve a request for a credit line increase if you have a sizable balance, so it's best to pay down as much of your debt as possible before asking. If you are approved for a limit increase, resist the urge to ramp up your credit card spending.
