---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/consumer-tools/mortgages/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:13.924912+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Mortgages Whether you’re thinking of buying a home, already have a home loan, or are having trouble paying your mortgage, we have resources to help you every step of the way. English - Español - Getting a mortgage Buying a House: Tools and resources for homebuyers Whether you’re just thinking about buying a home or about to close, we help you take control of the process. Maintaining a mortgage Paying your mortgage is important. We can help you understand how to read your mortgage statement, where to get help if you are struggling to pay your mortgage, and more. Having trouble paying your mortgage? If you are having trouble making your mortgage payments, take control by reaching out to your mortgage servicer and a HUD-approved housing counselor. Get started Basics Understand your monthly mortgage statement The first step to maintaining your mortgage is to pay your mortgage on time, every time. Understanding your monthly mortgage statement will help. Read more Know why your mortgage payment might change Your mortgage payment may change for a few reasons – for example, you have an adjustable rate mortgage and the interest rate changed. Read more Learn what you can do if you have trouble paying your mortgage Avoid foreclosure and mortgage scams with these four steps. Read more Understand your situation Take action Get help If you are having an issue with your mortgage, reach out to a HUD-approved housing counseling agency. Click here to find an agency in your area. You can also call the HOPE™ Hotline. Submit a complaint Having trouble with a financial product or service? If you've already tried reaching out to the company and still have an issue, you can submit a complaint. Tell us about your issue—we'll forward it to the company and work to get you a response, generally within 15 days. Page last modified @
