---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-debt-relief-companies-8763179
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:00.590678+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
of debt, paying off student loans usually isn't a priority. This is because student loans tend to have relatively low interest rates, so they're not as expensive to hold as other types of debt, like credit cards and personal loans. But, if you have some money in savings and some cash to spare, it generally makes sense to pay extra toward your student loans to pay them off faster and save on interest. How We Chose the Best Debt Relief Companies Investopedia's research and editorial teams researched the debt relief industry by collecting information directly from company websites and representatives, analyzing consumer sentiment, and conducting a competitive analysis. Investopedia researched 26 debt relief companies (offering either debt settlement, credit counseling, or both). Investopedia ranked each company across 63 criteria, broken down into the following categories for debt settlement companies: Costs and fees: 38.00%Availability: 10.00%Reputation and stability: 35.50%Customer experience: 5.50%Services: 11.00% The following category weights were used to rank credit counseling services: Costs and fees: 36.00%Availability: 15.00%Reputation and stability: 24.00%Services: 19.50%Customer experience: 5.50% Data was collected in September 2025. Investopedia gathered over 1,500 original data points to score and rank debt relief companies and provide the best possible recommendations for consumers with overwhelming debt. Read our full methodology to learn more about how we determined the best debt relief companies. Investopedia / Alice Morgan Article Sources Investopedia requires writers to use primary sources to support their work. These include white papers, government data, original reporting, and interviews with industry experts. We also reference original research from other reputable publishers where appropriate. You can learn more about the standards we follow in producing accurate, unbiased content in our editorial policy. Association for Consumer Debt Relief. “Member List.” International Association of Professional Debt Arbitrators. “National Debt Relief.” LinkedIn. "National Debt Relief." Federal Trade Commission. "Debt Relief Companies Prohibited From Collecting Advance Fees Under FTC Rule That Takes Effect October 27, 2010." Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. "Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Settles Lawsuit Against Freedom Debt Relief." LinkedIn. "Freedom Debt Relief." LinkedIn. "Money Management International." Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. "Consumer Complaint Database — New Era Debt Solutions." LinkedIn. “New Era Debt Solutions.” International Association of Professional Debt Arbitrators. “Beyond Finance.” LinkedIn. “Accredited Debt Relief.” Dun & Bradstreet. “Turbo Debt LLC.” LinkedIn. "Pacific Debt Relief." Apprisen. "Apprisen’s 60 Years of Success Through Service." LinkedIn. “Precision Tax Relief.” Federal Trade Commission. “How To Get Out of Debt.”
