---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/average-savings-by-age/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:30.501621+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:56 GMT
---
Average transaction account balance: $41,540 Median transaction account balance: $7,500 Your mid-30s to your mid-40s are often building years. Your career is underway. You may have purchased a home and started a family. As you take on additional responsibility, good financial habits, excellent credit and strong savings have an added value. Between ages 35 and 44, the average transaction account balance is $41,540 and the median is $7,500. How to Save Money From 35 to 44 Look for ways to up your savings game. By optimizing your savings, you'll save more and do more with the savings you have. Save on multiple fronts. Consider saving toward goals like buying or remodeling your home, replacing your car or setting aside money for your kids' college. Steady contributions to a 401(k) at work and/or a traditional or Roth IRA can help keep retirement goals on track. - Diversify your savings. Once you have enough saved in checking and savings, consider branching out. You may want to keep some of your additional savings in high-interest certificates of deposit (CDs) or invest a portion in stocks, bonds or exchange-traded funds. - Savings From Ages 45 to 54 Average transaction account balance: $71,130 Median transaction account balance: $8,700 The years between 45 and 54 are often the peak earning years. According to U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data, median wages for workers ages 45 to 54 are higher than for other age groups at $1,339 per week (or $69,628 per year). Transaction account balances are at or near the peak for this age group as well at a median of $8,700 and an average of $71,130. How to Save Money From 45 to 54 While you're earning more, save more. Capitalize on your earning potential. Set aside as much of your income as you can for retirement, cash savings and taxable investments. Think about asking for a raise, seeking out a better-paying job or developing a business (or side business) of your own. - Tap savings carefully. Now may be the time you use the money you saved in a 529 education account to send your kid to college, or withdraw funds from your home renovation fund to finally upgrade your kitchen. Enjoy putting the money you saved to good useâand be careful not to overspend. - Target retirement. This is the time to check your progress and set a course for retirement. Are you saving enough? Are you investing wisely? Do you have a plan? Start now, while you still have a bit of runway to get retirement plans off the ground. - Savings From Ages 55 to 64 Average transaction account balance: $72,520 Median transaction account balance: $8,000 What do people ages 55 to 64 do? They may adjust to an empty nest, launch an encore career, finally get the job recognition they deserve, start mapping out retirement moves, receive an inheritance and think about living on less. They have an average transaction account balance of $72,520 and a median balance of $8,000, not including retirement funds, CDs and investment accounts. How to Save From 55 to 64 Hopefully, the savings habits you've developed will carry you forward into retirement. That said, it's not too late to get help, take stock or catch up. Get financial advice. Meet with a retirement planner. Talk to your tax advisor. Ask your retired friends to share their experiences (and referrals). With major changes aheadâand plenty of changes happening nowâexpertise certainly doesn't hurt. - Catch up if you need to. The IRS lets you make additional contributions to your 401(k) plan and IRA accounts when you're 50 and older. In 2025, you can make a super-sized catch-up contribution of up to $11,250 to your 401(k) if you're 60 to 63, bringing your maximum contribution up to $34,750. - Earn Money Faster Compare high-yield savings accounts Find a
