---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/consumer-tools/student-loans/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:38.077394+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Student loans Whether you are preparing for college, attending school, or already repaying your student loans, we have tools and resources to help you make the best decisions for you. English - Español - Select the option that best fits your situation: I am looking for information about getting student loans Getting a student loan Get started Basics Learn about different ways to pay for college You have a choice about how you pay for your education. Understanding your choices can help you make the right decision for your situation. Read more Compare your college costs and financial aid offers Be sure you know whether you are being offered grants, scholarships, work study, or loans. If you’re weighing multiple financial aid offers, our Paying for College tool can help you compare your offers. Use our comparison tool Find out how to apply for student loans You must complete the FAFSA to be eligible for any federal student loans or grants. Read more Understand your situation Take action Submit a complaint Having trouble with a financial product or service? If you've already tried reaching out to the company and still have an issue, you can submit a complaint. Tell us about your issue—we'll forward it to the company and work to get you a response, generally within 15 days. Repaying student loans Get started Basics Learn how to find information about your student loans It’s important to understand the terms of your student loan so that you know how much you owe, when to begin paying, and how much to pay. Read more Explore student loan repayment options Paying off your student debt can be confusing. Walk through your options to pay off your loans. Read more Learn about repayment programs for people in public service There are programs to help you manage your federal student loan debt while pursuing a career in public service. Read more Understand your situation Take action Submit a complaint Having trouble with a financial product or service? If you've already tried reaching out to the company and still have an issue, you can submit a complaint. Tell us about your issue—we'll forward it to the company and work to get you a response, generally within 15 days. Page last modified @
