---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-credit-builder-loan/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:47.254086+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:15 GMT
---
unions: Many credit unions offer credit-builder loans; search your local institutions' websites to see your options. You'll need to become a member of the credit union to get a loan, and you'll qualify based on characteristics such as where you work or where you live. To join the credit union, you'll typically pay a membership fee of $5 to $25 or donate to a partner charity. - Community banks: These locally owned banks may also offer credit-builder loans, and they have a focus on financial education similar to credit unions. Search for a community bank near you using the Independent Community Bankers of America's search tool. - Lending circles: Peer groups can help each other build credit using lending circles, which offer interest-free loans usually facilitated by a community organization. The group decides on a monthly payment and loan balance, and each member pays the same amount per month to a central fund. Every month, one member receives a loan in the agreed-upon balance. In the meantime, monthly payments are reported to the three credit bureaus. You can look up lending circles in your area using the nonprofit Mission Asset Fund's database. - When considering different credit-builder loan options, be sure to compare interest rates and fees. Also, check whether you'll get back a portion of the interest that accrues on the balance. You should also look for a lender that reports to all three credit bureaus (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax) so that your on-time payments can help your credit scores across the board. Learn more: How to Get a Credit-Builder Loan Compare personal loan rates Find APRs from 4.99% to 35.99% and flexible terms of 12 to 120 months. Loan amounts range from $1,000 up to $250,000, with funding available the same day or up to 7 days. Offers from our partners View all of our Best Personal Loans for 2026 to see what youâre likely to qualify for, and the rates and terms you might get. Is It Hard to Get a Credit-Builder Loan? Credit-builder loans may be easier to qualify for than other types of credit because they're designed for borrowers with limited or damaged credit histories. You may not need to undergo a traditional credit check to apply for a credit-builder loan. Instead of using your credit score as a baseline for approval, some lenders may use your banking history through the consumer reporting agency ChexSystems. In this case, activities like bounced checks could affect whether you're approved for a loan. What Are the Requirements for a Credit-Builder Loan? You may be asked to provide some or all of the following when you apply for a credit-builder loan: Employment information - Pretax monthly income; lenders may allow you deduct any alimony or child support you receive from this total - Pay stubs as proof of income - If self-employed, tax returns as proof of income - Total housing payment - Other loan balances - Checking and savings account balances - References - Are Credit-Builder Loans Worth It? Applying for a credit-builder loan may be a worthwhile strategy if you want to build credit from scratch or rebuild a damaged score and would have difficulty getting approved for other forms of credit. That said, as is the case with any credit product, it's important to carefully weigh the benefits against risks. First, as is the case with any loan, if you're unable to afford your monthly payments, you could end up damaging your credit. Be sure to budget carefully to ensure you're able to pay on time each month before you apply for a loan. Also, be sure you understand how much the credit-builder loan will cost you in interest and other fees. Say, for example, you apply for a credit-builder loan of $1,000 with a 12-month term and 5% annual percentage rate (APR) with a credit
