---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/compliance/consumer-complaint-program/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:33.981767+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Consumer complaint program Learn how to access and respond to consumer complaints about your company. Congress directed the Bureau to collect, monitor, and get responses to complaints about financial products and services. Since 2011, the CFPB's Office of Consumer Response has worked to get consumers timely responses from more than 6,100 financial companies. On this page Learn about the complaint process Understand your company's role in the complaint process Each consumer complaint goes through a five-step process. Learn about each step so you know what to expect, how to respond, and how complaints are reviewed, shared, and published. Learn more about the complaint process See the types of complaints we send to companies We send consumers’ complaints about consumer financial products and services—including complaints referred to the CFPB by prudential regulators and other government agencies—to the CFPB-supervised bank or credit union or to the nonbank identified by the consumer. Review the list of complaint types we send to companies Respond to complaints By statute, a primary function of the CFPB is to collect, investigate and respond to consumer complaints. Companies receive and respond to these complaints through the Company Portal, a secure online environment that protects consumer privacy and the confidentiality of company responses. CFPB-supervised banks and credit unions The CFPB sends complaints to banks or credit unions supervised by the CFPB. We refer complaints about banks and credit unions that are not supervised by the CFPB to the appropriate prudential federal regulator. View list of CFPB-supervised banks and credit unions Nonbank financial institutions If you are a nonbank that provides consumer financial products and services, respond to complaints submitted to the CFPB by your customers by first getting access to your Company Portal. Sign up to address complaints Complete and submit the boarding form. Once we process your form, users authorized by your company will be able to log in using their company email address. Login to respond to complaints The CFPB expects companies to provide complete, accurate, and timely responses tailored to the issues described in each consumer’s complaint, generally within 15 calendar days. Get complaint data and insights Page last modified @
