---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/report-basics/my-credit-report/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:22.848849+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:12 GMT
---
identity theft. But it's also a good idea to check your credit reports at least every few months to stay on top of your credit history. Here's why: Ensure all the information is accurate. Occasionally, you may run into information on your credit reports that's been inaccurately reported by your creditors or is the result of fraud. Erroneous information can potentially damage your credit scores, making it difficult to get approved for credit when you need it. - Identify areas where you can improve. If your credit scores need some work, your credit reports will help you determine which steps you need to take to improve them. - Get a holistic view of your credit standing. If you're applying for a loan or credit card, checking your credit scores and credit reports can give you a general idea of your creditworthiness and help you evaluate your approval odds. - Check for discrepancies. Because your credit reports are handled by three separate companies, it's possible for there to be discrepancies between your reports. Reviewing all three credit reports can help you detect issues you may not notice if you're only checking one of them. - How to Fix Inaccuracies on Your Credit Report If you find a name, a credit account or other information you don't recognize on one of your credit reports, it could be a sign of identity theft. If this happens, you have the right to file a dispute with the appropriate credit reporting agency. Each credit bureau has its own process for handling disputes. Experian makes it easy to initiate a dispute online through the Experian Dispute Center. You can also initiate a dispute at Experian by phone or mail. Once you submit a dispute, the credit reporting agencies typically investigate and resolve the request within 30 days. Depending on the results of the investigation, the bureau may update or delete the disputed information or leave it unchanged. Tip: When incorrect information appears on multiple credit reports, you should submit a dispute with each of the three consumer credit bureaus. How to Check Your Credit Scores While your credit reports are the basis of your credit scores, you won't find your score anywhere on your reports. Fortunately, you can also check your FICOÂ® ScoreÎ based on your Experian credit report for free anytime, making it easier to stay on top of your credit health. You can also access your FICOÂ® Score based on all three of your credit reports for a one-time fee or by subscribing to a premium Experian account. Checking your credit scores regularly can help you spot early signs of potential issues. If you notice a dip in your scores, taking swift action can help prevent things from getting worse. The Bottom Line Regularly reviewing your credit reports can help you build and maintain good credit scores and also identify potential threats to your creditworthiness. With Experian's free credit monitoring service, you can review your Experian credit report and FICOÂ® Score and also get real-time alerts when changes are made to your report, making it easier to keep track of your credit profile. Whatâs on your credit report? Stay up to date with your latest credit informationâand get your FICOÂ® Score for free. Get your free reportNo credit card required About the author Ben Luthi has worked in financial planning, banking and auto finance, and writes about all aspects of money. His work has appeared in Time, Success, USA Today, Credit Karma, NerdWallet, Wirecutter and more. Read more from Ben
