---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/life-stages/articles/-/learn/natural-disaster-assistance/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:11.070881+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
After a Natural Disaster: Steps to Rebuild, Assistance and Other Resources Highlights: Following a natural disaster, there is a lot to think about, including: your finances, important documents and how to better protect against identity theft. - As a natural disaster survivor, you may want to directly call every loan service provider, credit card and utility companies with whom you do business. - Checking your credit reports for unrecognized activity, disputing any inaccuracies, and placing a security freeze with all three Nationwide Credit Reporting Agencies (NCRAs)—Equifax®, Experian® and TransUnion® — may better help protect you from identity theft. - Surviving a natural disaster comes with a range of emotions. Many people are tasked with rebuilding their homes and communities. Additionally, you may need to think about your finances, important documents and identity theft. If you've experienced a natural disaster such as a hurricane, tornado or flood, here are some things you can do or consider as you begin to rebuild: Replace lost or destroyed documents. It's not uncommon to lose or have damaged important documents such as: birth certificates, driver's licenses, marriage certificates, Social Security cards, passports, naturalization and citizenship documents in the event of a natural disaster. Luckily, your state Bureau of Records office can help with birth and marriage certificates. To request other vital documents, you can find links to every US state and territory from the CDC, or you can find it on your state government's website. For your driver's license replacement, you may be able to apply online depending on state requirements. - To replace your Social Security card, contact your local Social Security Administration. - Consider placing a fraud alert or a security freeze on your credit reports. - Contact the State Department to apply for a new passport. - For replacement naturalization or citizenship documents, reach out to the US Citizenship and Immigration Services. - Copies of vital documents can also be requested at USA.gov. - Forwarding Your Mail. Many of your replacement documents may come in the mail. The United States Postal Service (USPS) has been slow nationwide. Consider forwarding your mail to a secure location, renting a P.O. Box, or ask your local post office to hold your mail for later pick up. Contact your lenders and creditors directly as soon as possible. As a natural disaster survivor, you may want to call every loan service provider (this may include your mortgage, car loan and/or student loan service providers), credit card and utility companies directly if you are unable to meet your financial commitments on time. If you're unable to live in your home, contact your utility companies and request a suspension of services. Some lenders or creditors have forbearance or other accommodation options in these situations. In forbearance, a borrower is allowed to temporarily postpone payments, although the debt is not forgiven. However, failing to contact lenders and creditors and making late payments or missing payments can result in penalties and may negatively affect your credit scores. Make sure you fully understand the terms of your forbearance or other accommodation. In most cases, the deferred payments are not forgiven. Some forbearance allows deferred payments for a few months and may require the entire amount in one lump sum immediately upon the end of the forbearance period. If your lender or creditor offers you a forbearance, deferment, moratorium or loan modification following a natural disaster, carefully study the terms of the offer before agreeing. Place an insurance claim if applicable. This may be a good time to start the insurance claims process if your home, car or property was damaged. If your insurance policy is lost or destroyed, you can request a copy from your agent or insurance company for coverage purposes. Your policy may also be available in your account portal online depending on your insurance policyholder. Check your credit reports.
