---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-robo-advisors-8764849
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:51.464816+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
portfolio. Diversification: Having a diversified portfolio involves spreading out your investment dollars among a broad range of stocks, bonds, and other assets. This is in contrast to having a large percentage of your investments committed to a single security. Asset allocation: One way to describe asset allocation would be that it is how an investor chooses to diversify assets, including equities, cash, and fixed income. The best approach to asset allocation depends on your needs and goals. Someone saving for the short-term would take a different approach than someone saving for the long term. Retirement planning: Determining your approach to retirement planning involves knowing how much income you think you'll need in retirement, then creating and following a plan to get there. Some robo-advisors can help specifically with this common type of investment planning. Index investing: Robo-advisors commonly use index investing as a passive approach. This involves trying to create an investment portfolio that closely follows a specific market index. Pros & Cons of Robo-Advisors Pros Ease of use Lower costs Investment models Cons Impersonal Limited flexibility Pros Explained Ease of use: One of the main draws of robo-advisors is that they are easy to use. It can be as simple as creating an account and answering questions about your investment goals. This ease of use also includes 24/7 access, which avoids having to fit someone else's schedule.Lower costs: Because robo-advisors take a passive approach, their costs typically are lower than those of working with a personal advisor or trying to actively manage your own investments.Investment models: Robo-advisors offer choices of many investment models to follow. For example, if you want to focus on investing in environmentally conscious companies, there are robo-advisors that can handle that. Cons Explained Impersonal: An automated process built on algorithms is definitely easy to use, but for times when you might want specific advice or a certain kind of feedback, it's difficult to get exactly that with robo-advisors.Limited flexibility: While there are a lot of investment models to choose from, customization is limited or nonexistent depending on the robo-advisor. How We Picked the Best Robo-Advisors Providing readers with unbiased, comprehensive reviews of digital wealth management companies, more commonly known as robo-advisors, is a top priority of Investopedia. We combined our industry research and subject matter expertise to guide the research and weightings for our 2026 robo-advisor rankings. To collect the data, our researchers gathered data points through online research of provider websites. To fill in any gaps, our research team reached out to the individual companies. In some instances, our researchers did much deeper online research to get the information they needed to complete the data collection. The data collection process spanned from April 5, 2025 to April 11, 2025. We then developed a quantitative model that scored each company to rate its performance across nine major categories and 60 weighted criteria to find the best robo-advisors. The score for each company’s overall star rating is a weighted average of the criteria: Goal Planning - 21.00%Portfolio Contents - 17.00%Portfolio Management - 17.00%Fees - 15.00%Account Services - 10.00%Account Setup - 5.00%Customer Service - 5.00%Security & Education - 5.00%User Experience - 5.00% Through this all-encompassing data collection and review process, Investopedia has provided you with an unbiased and thorough review of the top robo-advisors. The above material and content should not be considered to be a recommendation. Investing in digital assets is highly speculative and volatile, and only suitable for investors who are able to bear the risk of potential loss and experience sharp drawdowns. Digital assets are not legal tender and are not backed by the U.S. government. Digital assets are not subject to FDIC insurance or SIPC protections. People Inc. receives cash compensation from Wealthfront Advisers LLC (“Wealthfront Advisers”) for each new client that applies for a Wealthfront Automated Investing Account through our links. This
