---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-use-a-credit-card/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:29.258255+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:52 GMT
---
The Simple Guide to Using Credit Cards Quick Answer Credit cards pack a surprising number of benefits into a small rectangle of plastic. Smart usage can build or improve your credit, while delivering valuable perks and benefits. Poor credit card habits, on the other hand, can be disastrous to your credit score and overall financial health. Credit cards are one of the most versatile personal finance tools available, but they sometimes get a bad rap. It's fair to say that bad spending habits, or an improper use of credit cards, can lead to problems with debt. When used wisely, however, they can help you build or improve credit, reap rewards and potentially better manage high-interest debt. Here's a guide on how credit cards work and how to use them responsibly. How Do Credit Cards Work? A credit card is a line of credit that allows you to make purchases and pay them off over time. Credit cards are issued by banks, credit unions and other financial institutions to qualified applicants. When you apply for a card, the issuer will check your credit report, credit score, income and other factors to determine your eligibility. If approved, you'll be told your card's interest rate, credit limit and terms and fees. Unlike loans, which provide a lump sum of money you pay back in installments, credit cards are forms of revolving credit. That means you borrow only what you need from a credit line, and can continue to do so again and again as you repay your balance. You only pay interest when you carry (or revolve) a balance to the next month. You can charge any amount up to the card's credit limit, though that doesn't mean you should (more on that below). If you carry a balance, you'll owe a monthly minimum payment, typically 2% to 4% of the balance. Keep in mind that if you have a high balance and pay only the minimum, very little of that payment will go toward the principal balance, which can leave you in a cycle of debt. Making at least your minimum payment on time every month is a crucial part of protecting your credit score. Compare top credit cards matched for you How to Use a Credit Card Responsibly Credit cards shouldn't be used as a way to live beyond your means. They're beneficial when you use them to build credit, pay off a large purchase over the short term or take advantage of rewards. Here are three key habits for responsible credit card use. 1. Keep a Low Balance Just because you're given a credit limit of $10,000 doesn't mean you should use all of it. While it may seem counterintuitive given that you were approved for that amount, carrying a hefty balance can harm your credit and possibly make it difficult to pay down your debt. A key component of your credit score is your credit utilization ratio, which is a calculation of how your credit card balances compare with your credit limits. Higher credit utilization, especially once your balance exceeds about 30% of your available credit, can hurt credit scores. People with the highest credit scores tend to have a credit utilization ratio under 10%. 2. Pay Your Bill on Time One of the most crucial aspects to smart credit card usage is sending every payment on or before the due date. Payments are listed on your credit reports, and while on-time payments can help improve your credit, payments that are 30 days or more late will hurt them. Some card issuers provide a grace period that gives you a few weeks to pay your statement's bill. But you can make extra payments at any time, and you can always pay more than the minimum. If you struggle to remember your due dates, set up automatic bill pay. 3.
