---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-can-i-get-credit-for-the-first-time/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:46.720247+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:31 GMT
---
How to Get Credit for the First Time Trying to get credit for the first time can feel like you're going in circles. Without a credit history, it's difficult to get credit; but without credit, you can't build a credit history. How do you get out of this loop? Fortunately, there are a couple of solutions. You can start responsibly building up credit in several ways, including by getting a secured credit card or becoming an authorized user on a family member's credit card. Regardless of what you do to establish credit, your credit score will see the biggest improvement if you make each and every bill payment on time. Keep reading to learn how to establish credit for the first time and build a credit history you can be proud of. Understand How Credit Works Your credit report is a record of how you've managed your debts. Do you make payments on time or are you always late? Are your credit cards nearly maxed out? Have you missed a student loan payment? All of this information is available in your credit report. Banks, credit card companies and other companies you do business with report your payment history to one or more of the three major credit bureaus (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax). That information goes into your credit report. Based on the information in your credit report, a three-digit credit score is generated. There are several different credit scoring models, and each one calculates your score in a slightly different way, but no matter what model is used, the credit score represents how creditworthy you appear to lenders. When you apply for a credit card, loan or other form of credit, the creditor will check your credit report and pull your credit score. The higher your credit score, the more confident creditors will be that you can pay them back. If you have a poor credit score, however, you may be denied credit or offered credit on more onerous terms, such as a higher interest rate. Open a Secured Card Opening a secured credit card is a good way for first-timers to build credit. As the name implies, this type of card is "secured" by a refundable security deposit. If you don't pay your bill, the card issuer can use your security deposit to cover it. The amount of your security deposit typically determines your credit limit. You may be able to get a secured credit card with a deposit as low as $200; some cards let you deposit more money if you want a higher credit limit. Before applying for a secured credit card, make sure that the card issuer reports your payment history to the three major credit reporting agencies. Otherwise, using that card won't help you build a credit history. Also, clarify any additional fees the card charges as these extra fees can reduce your credit limit. Finally, be sure you know exactly what your credit limit will be so you don't accidentally go over it. Once you receive your secured credit card, use it to make small purchases every month and be sure to pay the bill on time. This helps establish that you can handle credit wisely. Remember that even one late payment can hurt the credit score that you're trying so hard to establish. To ensure you never miss a payment date, it's a good idea to set up automatic payments for at least the minimum amount due each month. Become an Authorized User If you have family members who are responsible credit users with good credit scores, getting added to one of their credit card accounts is a good way to start building credit. Some parents choose to add their teenage or college age children as an authorized user on their credit cards to give them a head start before they can get
