---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/articles/active-trading/120914/how-buy-stock-insurance-companies.asp
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:39.365930+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Table of Contents Expand Table of Contents Demutualization Investing in Insurance Companies Life Insurance Companies Investing in Property & Casualty Companies The Bottom Line How to Buy Stock in Insurance Companies By Adam Hayes Full Bio Adam Hayes, Ph.D., CFA, is a financial writer with 15+ years Wall Street experience as a derivatives trader. Besides his extensive derivative trading expertise, Adam is an expert in economics and behavioral finance. Adam received his master's in economics from The New School for Social Research and his Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin-Madison in sociology. He is a CFA charterholder as well as holding FINRA Series 7, 55 & 63 licenses. He currently researches and teaches economic sociology and the social studies of finance at the University of Lucerne in Switzerland.Adam's new book, "Irrational Together: The Social Forces That Invisibly Shape Our Economic Behavior" (University of Chicago Press) is a must-read at the intersection of behavioral economics and sociology that reshapes how we think about the social underpinnings of our financial choices. Learn about our editorial policies Updated July 19, 2022 Reviewed by JeFreda R. Brown Reviewed by JeFreda R. Brown Full Bio Dr. JeFreda R. Brown is a financial consultant, Certified Financial Education Instructor, and researcher who has assisted thousands of clients over a more than two-decade career. She is the CEO of Xaris Financial Enterprises and a course facilitator for Cornell University. Learn about our Financial Review Board Fact checked by Suzanne Kvilhaug Fact checked by Suzanne Kvilhaug Full Bio Suzanne is a content marketer, writer, and fact-checker. She holds a Bachelor of Science in Finance degree from Bridgewater State University and helps develop content strategies. Learn about our editorial policies Close Insurance companies offer products that most of us need and in doing so take on many of the risks that we don't want. Insurance companies tend to be viewed as big, relatively boring financial institutions, but they are, in fact, in the business of protecting others from financial harm and risk management. Key Takeaways Until fairly recently, most insurance companies were organized as mutuals, owned by their policyholders rather than external investors.Demutualization has been the process of converting these mutuals into stock companies, where they are now listed on major stock exchanges.When buying insurance stocks, there are fundamental differences in the business models of life and health insurers vs. property causality insurers. Demutualization of the Insurance Industry Historically, insurance companies were structured as mutual companies, owned by the policyholders and operated only for the benefit of policyholders. On the other hand, stock companies are owned by shareholders and they seek to maximize return to shareholders. In recent years, many mutual companies have converted into stock companies in a process called demutualization. Because mutual companies do not issue shares to the public, only stock companies can be invested in the stock market. Insurance companies sell policies that promise to payout a benefit to the policyholder if a covered event occurs during the term of the policy. With life insurance, the covered event would be death of the insured. With homeowners insurance that might be a house fire, storm damage or theft. In exchange for the insurance coverage, the policyholder pays the insurer premiums, which are invested to earn a profit for the company until they are needed to pay out claims. Investing in Insurance Companies Insurance companies have unique circumstances that make their analysis different from other financial institutions such as banks or lenders. All insurance companies have a set of future liabilities that they are contractually obliged to pay out given a qualifying event. As a result, they must invest premiums received conservatively in order to have a ready reserve of liquid assets on hand to pay out those claims. Insurance company portfolio managers utilize asset-liability management (ALM) by matching assets to liabilities; rather than the more familiar asset-only
