---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/best-online-brokers-4587872
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:08:17.761941+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
support Few investing and retirement resources Lacks some key investment choices like mutual funds Overview Ask any options trader, and they are likely to tell you that this form of derivative trading is complex and difficult to master. But with the right guidance, the many options strategies that are available to use can become powerful weapons that allow both traders and investors to benefit from key factors like time decay and leverage. Created by the same people who developed TD Ameritrade’s highly regarded thinkorswim platform, tastytrade maintains its stance as the best broker for options because of its intuitive delivery of an industry-best mix of comprehensive options-focused tools and content. Launched as tastyworks in 2017 and headquartered in Chicago, tastytrade delivers very competitive transaction fees for options trading, including standout commission caps for large lot sizes, as well as the absence of any fees when closing positions. Fortunately for tastytrade users, these low commissions come with a platform that continues to undergo enhancements, which complement its already powerful delivery of options analytics, platform workflow, trade execution, and valuable digital content. On Oct. 16, 2024, tastytrade even launched an options backtesting tool–a highly advanced feature that very few competitors boast. Robinhood: Best for Cryptocurrency Trading 3 Open an Account Account Minimum: $0 Fees: Trades of stocks, ETFs, and their options are commission-free. Other fees may apply Read full review Open an Account Why We Chose It Robinhood is Investopedia's choice as the best traditional broker for trading cryptocurrency because of its industry-leading selection of available digital assets and sleek, user-friendly platform. Pros & Cons Pros Simple, intuitive trading experience $0 trading commissions Brokerage industry's largest selection of supported crypto assets Solid cash management features Available IRA match Cons Lack of full transparency around crypto spread pricing Limited research Limited account types Not all crypto assets are tradable through Robinhood Legend Overview Robinhood was founded in 2013 and is headquartered in Menlo Park, California. It began as a simple, bare-bones mobile-focused platform determined to disrupt the brokerage industry with no-commission trading on stocks and ETFs. Since then, the company has gone on to introduce options and futures trading, has made solid cash management and IRA matching services available to its Robinhood Gold members, rolled out its more advanced Legend trading platform, and launched a wealth management product known as Robinhood Strategies, along with a number of additional products the company plans to roll out later this year. Along the way, Robinhood has also introduced cryptocurrency trading to its customers and has continued to build its list of tradable crypto ever since. U.S.-based crypto enthusiasts who appreciate Robinhood for its easy-to-use trading platforms will enjoy selecting from the company's list of 40 supported crypto assets, the brokerage industry's largest. For more advanced traders, however, Robinhood still lacks access to some of the critical research and sophisticated trading tools that some larger industry competitors offer. In addition, commission-free crypto trades still come with spread charges, and roughly half of the cryptocurrencies that Robinhood supports are not tradable through the new Legend platform. E*TRADE: Best for Mobile Investing & Trading 3.8 Open an Account Account Minimum: $0 Fees: No commission for stock, ETF, and mutual fund trades; options are $0.50-$0.65 per contract, depending on trading volume Read full review Open an Account Tip Open and fund a new brokerage account and get up to $1,000. Terms apply. Why We Chose It A pioneer in both mobile and online trading, E*TRADE has mastered the art of developing a mobile experience with the right mix of intuitive navigation, robust portfolio and risk management capabilities, deep research, easy-to-digest education, and complex trading tools to cater to investors and traders of all levels. Ongoing enhancements to E*TRADE's mobile capabilities over the past couple of years have solidified its position as our best mobile trading and investing platform for the
