---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-protect-yourself-from-identity-theft/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:21.387635+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:49 GMT
---
Watch Out for Phishing Attempts In a phishing attempt, a cyber thief is hunting for personal or financial information that could help them steal your identity. Phishing attempts typically come in the form of emails or text messages. The goal: Make you click on a link or open an attachment that looks legitimate. For instance, an unexpected text might cause you to think a trusted company such as a credit card issuer is directing you to click on a link to handle an account issue. Once you click, however, you'll be asked to enter some personal information, such as a password or account number on an account a scammer controls. Once you submit your information, a scammer may be able to access your credit card account or bank account. Or the scammer might sell your information to another scammer. If you suspect there's something fishy about an email or text message containing a link or attachment, don't click or download anything. Clicking could lead you to a phony website that asks you to type information like a password, and downloading might infect your device with software (called malware) that's designed to steal personal information. If you think the message may be legitimate, call or email the company separately using the contact information on your account statement. 6. Never Give Out Personal Information Over the Phone Fraudsters are sneaky and creative. For example, they might call you and pretend to be an employee of a bank or credit card company. During the conversation, they may ask for personal data, such as your Social Security number, credit card PIN or mother's maiden name. No reputable organization will contact you by phone and request personal data. So, before you provide information that could lead to identity theft, ask for the name of the caller and the organization they represent. Next, end the call and find the phone number for the organization listed on their official website to verify whether the over-the-phone request was legitimate. 7. Regularly Check Your Credit Reports Checking your credit reports on a regular basis enables you to see any suspicious activity, such as new accounts that you didn't open. When you make it a habit to check your credit reports, you're better equipped to head off damage that can be done by an identity thief. You can get a free credit report from each of the three major credit bureaus by visiting AnnualCreditReport.com. In addition, you can get a copy of your credit report and review your credit scores for free through Experian. 8. Limit Your Exposure Resist the temptation to carry a lot of credit cards when you're out and about. The more credit cards you keep in your wallet, the more opportunities a thief has to steal from you. Ideally, you should carry just one card that can be used for a variety of purposes and leave the rest of your cards at home. If that won't work, limit the number of credit cards in your wallet to only those that you'll really use. 9. Be Careful With Public Wi-Fi These days, public Wi-Fi networks at places like coffee shops and airports are generally secure thanks to encryption measures that most websites adopt. However, you should verify the encryption before you trust a public Wi-Fi network. To see whether a website is encrypted, check for a lock symbol or https:// in the address bar to the left of the web address. Also, be sure to double-check that you're connecting to a legitimate public Wi-Fi network. Other steps you can take to shield your information from cyber crooks when you're connected to a public Wi-Fi network include: Avoid sharing sensitive information - Use a virtual private network (VPN) - Make sure your computer's operating system is up to date - Log out of all online accounts after you've
