---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/savings-challenges-to-try-this-year/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:28.815055+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:02 GMT
---
completely cut your discretionary spending, which includes things like meals out, shopping and entertainment. To avoid burning out, consider starting small with a no-spend weekend. If you feel motivated, you could push yourself for a week. The grittiest of no-spend savers can try for a marathon no-spend month. Learn more: Steps to Create Financial Stability 4. Round-Up Saving Challenge For this challenge, implement a round-up rule. Anytime you make a purchase, round up to the nearest dollar and pocket the change. For instance, if you spend $28.57 at the store, the difference is 43 cents. Keep a tally of your change throughout the day or week and then transfer that money over to savings, if you're using cards for payment. If you're paying in cash, stash the change away in a change jar. 5. Dollar Saving Challenge It may not seem like $1 a day is a lot, but it gets you to $365 by the end of the year창a respectable sum that you could funnel into your emergency fund, use for holiday shopping or direct toward another long-term goal, such as saving for a down payment on a house. To do the dollar saving challenge, set up an automatic transfer for $7 per week into your savings account. Consider completing this challenge in tandem with another challenge to bolster your successes. 6. Monthly Subscription Saving Challenge With subscription services as popular as they are these days, it's likely that you have quite a few recurring monthly charges that you're paying without even thinking about it. Streaming services, news platforms, subscription boxes, food delivery service memberships창all these relatively small charges add up. To do the monthly subscription challenge, go through your bank or credit card statements and highlight all your recurring subscriptions. From there, aim to cancel as many as you can. Focus on the discretionary services you can live without. You probably can't cancel your internet service, for example. But if you have multiple streaming services, at least a couple can likely go without having much impact on your life. From there, tally up your monthly savings. Set up a transfer into your savings account for the amount you would've spent on recurring costs each month. Learn more: How to Manage All Your Monthly Subscriptions 7. Financial Minimalist Challenge Have you considered that implementing minimalist practices could benefit your finances, but aren't sure if you can fully hack the minimalist lifestyle? Then try going minimalist for a week창or even a month창with a money minimalism challenge. The key to the challenge is living simply, reducing your spending down to only buy what you need or truly love. Try to approach it from the angle of not what you can afford, but rather how little you can buy without diminishing your quality of life. That may mean cooking more at home or going to a free concert rather than paying for entertainment. It could also mean finding things you do need, such as clothing or bakeware, second hand or through a Buy Nothing group. Learn more: How Minimalism Can Save You Money 8. Money Mistake Jar Challenge Money mistakes happen. But what if every time you made an impulse purchase, went off budget or otherwise made a money move you swore you wouldn't, you put a dollar in the money mistake jar? The challenge is simple. If you promised yourself you wouldn't eat out for lunch this week, and you do, throw a dollar (or whatever amount works for you) in the jar. If, in a moment of impulse, you did some online shopping that wasn't budgeted for, throw a dollar in the jar. A dollar here and there won't offset the damage that routinely going off budget can do to your bank account, but it could help you reinforce good money habits and save a bit in the process. Learn
