---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
found to be inaccurate or incomplete or cannot be verified after any reinvestigation under paragraph (1), for purposes of reporting to a consumer reporting agency only, as appropriate, based on the results of the reinvestigation promptly – (i) modify that item of information; (ii) delete that item of information; or (iii) permanently block the reporting of that item of information. (2) Deadline. A person shall complete all investigations, reviews, and reports required under paragraph (1) regarding information provided by the person to a consumer reporting agency, before the expiration of the period under section 611(a)(1) [§ 1681i] within which the § 623 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2 97 consumer reporting agency is required to complete actions required by that section regarding that information. (c) Limitation on liability. Except as provided in section 621(c)(1)(B), sections 616 and 617 do not apply to any violation of – (1) subsection (a) of this section, including any regulations issued thereunder; (2) subsection (e) of this section, except that nothing in this paragraph shall limit, expand, or otherwise affect liability under section 616 or 617, as applicable, for violations of subsection (b) of this section; or (3) subsection (e) of section 615. (d) Limitation on enforcement . The provisions of law described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (c) (other than with respect to the exception described in paragraph (2) of subsection (c)) shall be enforced exclusively as provided under section 621 by the Federal agencies and officials and the State officials identified in section 621. (e) Accuracy Guidelines and Regulations Required See also 12 CFR Part 1022, Subpart E, 16 CFR Part 660, 74 Fed. Reg. 31484 (07/01/09), 86 Fed. Reg. 51819-21 (09/17/21) (1) Guidelines. The Bureau shall, with respect to persons or entities that are subject to the enforcement authority of the Bureau under section 621 – (A) establish and maintain guidelines for use by each person that furnishes information to a consumer reporting agency regarding the accuracy and integrity of the information relating to consumers that such entities furnish to consumer reporting agencies, and update such guidelines as often as necessary; and (B) prescribe regulations requiring each person that furnishes information to a consumer reporting agency to establish reasonable policies and procedures for implementing the guidelines established pursuant to subparagraph (A). (2) Criteria. In developing the guidelines required by paragraph (1)(A), the Bureau shall – (A) identify patterns, practices, and specific forms of activity that can compromise the accuracy and integrity of information furnished to consumer reporting agencies; 98§ 624 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-3 (B) review the methods (including technological means) used to furnish information relating to consumers to consumer reporting agencies; (C) determine whether persons that furnish information to consumer reporting agencies maintain and enforce policies to ensure the accuracy and integrity of information furnished to consumer reporting agencies; and (D) examine the policies and processes that persons that furnish information to consumer reporting agencies employ to conduct re investigations and correct inaccurate information relating to consumers that has been furnished to consumer reporting agencies. § 624. Affiliate sharing [15 U.S.C. § 1681s-3] See also 12 CFR Part 1022, Subpart C, App C, 16 CFR Parts 680, 698 App B, 74 Fed. Reg. 22639-40 (05/14/09), 72 Fed. Reg. 61455-64 (10/30/07), 86 Fed. Reg. 51609-11 (09/16/21) (a) Special Rule for Solicitation for Purposes of Marketing (1) Notice. Any person that receives from another person related to it by common ownership or affiliated by corporate control a communication of information that would be a consumer report, but for clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of section 603(d)(2)(A), may not use the information to make a solicitation for marketing purposes to a consumer about its products or services, unless – (A) it is clearly and conspicuously disclosed to the consumer that the information may be communicated among such persons for purposes of making
