---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/preventing-fraud/credit-card-fraud-what-to-do-if-you-are-a-victim/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:31.914029+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
Keep the cards you use regularly in a secure wallet and avoid lending them out or leaving them out in plain sight (on a restaurant table or bar, for example), where practiced criminals could memorize their details with just a glance. Keep cards you don't use regularly in a spot that's secure, but where you'll notice if they go missing. - Use contactless payments when possible. Systems that let you pay with your smartphone or by tapping with your card are more secure and far less susceptible to skimming than those that require swiping or "dipping" your card. - Guard your PIN. Credit card cash advances often require use of a four-digit PIN, and lack of that code could thwart a thief who's stolen or cloned your card. So, just as you should with a debit card PIN, take care to conceal the keypad when you enter a credit card PIN, to prevent detection via hidden camera or "shoulder surfing." - Don't store card numbers online. At online checkouts, decline the offers to save card info for future use. Sure, it's a hassle to type in your card number each time you shop, but it's less painful than dealing with credit card fraud if your information is stolen. - Report and replace missing cards immediately. Unless you know the whereabouts of a missing card and are certain you can retrieve it quickly (in which case you should lock the card), err on the side of caution: Report the card missing and request a replacement. Many card issuers offer free next-day delivery on replacement cards, and others can expedite shipping for a fee. - Learn more: Ways to Avoid Credit Card Fraud The Bottom Line The possibility of fraud is a side effect of credit card convenience. Keeping watch on your cards, account statements and credit reports can help you detect fraud quickly and nip fraud in the bud. For an extra measure of vigilance, consider enrolling in free credit monitoring from Experian, which alerts you instantly when a new credit application or account is recorded on your Experian credit report. Monitor your credit for free Credit monitoring can help you detect possible identity fraud, and can prevent surprises when you apply for credit. Get daily notifications when changes are detected. Get free monitoringAbout the author Jim Akin is freelance writer based in Connecticut. With experience as both a journalist and a marketing professional, his most recent focus has been in the area of consumer finance and credit scoring. Read more from Jim
