---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/score-basics/what-affects-your-credit-scores/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:49.568502+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:22 GMT
---
a credit card or a mortgageâand then demonstrate responsible management of these accounts. Compare personal loan rates Find APRs from 4.99% to 35.99% and flexible terms of 12 to 120 months. Loan amounts range from $1,000 up to $250,000, with funding available the same day or up to 7 days. Offers from our partners View all of our Best Personal Loans for 2026 to see what youâre likely to qualify for, and the rates and terms you might get. 5. New Credit: 10% It's a statistical fact that new debt raises the odds you'll fall behind on your old debts. Credit scoring systems, therefore, may ding your score a small amount in response to hard inquiriesâentries that appear on your credit report when a lender processes a credit application from you. Your credit will usually decrease less than five points per inquiry, and if you keep up with your bills, your score will typically rebound within a few months. Hard inquiries are not all treated the same, however. Credit scoring models see rate shopping for the best rates and terms on installment loans such as mortgages, car loans and student loans as positive behavior. In these cases, they lump together hard inquiries on the same type of loan made within a short period of time (two weeks to be safe) and consider them as one inquiry. Note that hard inquiries made in relation to credit card applications don't get this same treatment: Each inquiry is considered separately, and can have a bigger impact if you apply for several cards in a short time span. New credit is responsible for 10% of your FICOÂ® Score. Key moves to make: Limit hard inquiries on your credit report by only applying for new credit when you need it. Before you apply for a credit card or loan, get prequalified for a stronger sense of whether you may be able to get approved. When you're shopping for a large loan, such as a mortgage, and need to compare loan terms, take advantage of rate shopping by sticking to a focused 14-day shopping window. Frequently Asked Questions The Bottom Line Understanding the factors that go into credit scores can help you recognize the connections between your behaviors and your scores. While there are factors beyond your control (you can't instantly gain 10 more years of credit management experience, for instance), you can make choices today that affect your credit scores relatively quickly. Adopting good credit habits that align with credit scoring factors and sticking to them over the long haul is the key to steady credit score improvement. To monitor your progress, you can sign up for free credit monitoring from Experian. What makes a good credit score? Learn what it takes to achieve a good credit score. Review your FICOÂ® Score for free and see whatâs helping and hurting your score. Get your FICOÂ® ScoreNo credit card required About the author Jim Akin is freelance writer based in Connecticut. With experience as both a journalist and a marketing professional, his most recent focus has been in the area of consumer finance and credit scoring. Read more from Jim
