---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/best-cd-rates/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:19.709382+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:57 GMT
---
reinvest that money or put it toward your financial goals. Let's say you invest: $1,000 in a one-year CD at 3.8% - $3,000 in a six-month CD at 4.5% - $1,000 in an 18-month CD at 4% - When all is said and done, you'll earn more than $165 in interest. You could earn even more over time if you continue CD laddering. Alternatives to CDs If you decide that a CD isn't the best option for you, you can consider one of these alternatives: Money Market Account | High-Yield Savings Account | Investment Account | ---|---|---| Current average APY | 0.88%* | 1.71%* | N/A | ---|---|---|---| FDIC or NCUA Insurance? | Yes | Yes | No, but brokerage accounts that hold cash and other securities are insured by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) | ---|---|---|---| Easy access to funds? | Yes | Yes | Yes | ---|---|---|---| Fees | Yes, potential minimum balance requirements, overdraft fees and inactivity fees | Yes, potential minimum balance requirements, overdraft fees and inactivity fees | Yes, potential fees for buying and selling securities and account maintenance fees | ---|---|---|---| *Source: Curinos LLC as of November 2025; MMA with a $2,500 deposit Frequently Asked Questions The Bottom Line CD rates are constantly in fluxâand they can vary widely depending on the financial institution, deposit amount and term length. Keeping an eye on rate trends, and shopping around, can go a long way if you're looking to open a CD. Just make sure you understand any fees that may apply. That includes early withdrawal penalties. If you decide that a CD makes sense for you, consider a CD ladder to maximize your returns. About the author Marianne Hayes is a longtime freelance writer who's been covering personal finance for nearly a decade. She specializes in everything from debt management and budgeting to investing and saving. Marianne has written for CNBC, Redbook, Cosmopolitan, Good Housekeeping and more. Read more from Marianne
