---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-personal-loans-8761582
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:29.905651+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
tax-deductible if you use the funds to “buy, build, or substantially improve the residence,” according to the IRS. Frequently Asked Questions Who Is the Best Lender for a Personal Loan? According to our research, LightStream is the best personal loan lender, based on its combination of competitive rates, large loan amounts, and wide range of repayment terms.If you're looking to borrow from a traditional bank, our choice is Citibank. It offers a low maximum APR and same-day funding for Citibank account holders. If you live near a Citibank branch, you can get in-person assistance with your application. What Credit Score Is Needed for a Personal Loan? The average personal loan borrower had a credit score of 685 during the final quarter of 2022, according to the Federal Reserve.However, this can vary quite a bit; some lenders, such as Upstart, have no minimum credit score requirement. Others require a credit score over 700. Banks and credit unions tend to have higher credit score requirements. Fintech lenders generally accept lower credit scores. How Much Would a $5,000 Personal Loan Cost per Month? The monthly cost of a personal loan, of whatever amount, will depend on the loan amount, the loan term (or the number of monthly payments), and the interest rate. The easiest way to calculate a monthly payment is to use a personal loan calculator. A $5,000 loan, with no origination fees and repaid over 24 months (or two years), with an interest rate of 12.33% (the current average rate charged on two-year personal loans, according to the Federal Reserve) would result in a monthly payment of $236.14. Total interest cost would be $667.33. Should You Get a Personal Loan From a Bank or a Credit Union? Based on our analysis of rates, terms, customer experience, and other factors, we encourage borrowers to check with a credit union while gathering loan offers. Credit unions generally offer better rates to a broader range of credit profiles than traditional banks or fintechs. However, credit unions may not be as convenient as banks or fintechs, due to credit union membership requirements. And few credit unions offer the streamlined application and approval processes that fintechs, and many banks, now offer. Companies We Reviewed We researched and reviewed 59 lenders to find the lenders you see above. Below are the lenders we researched to determine the best personal loan lenders, along with links to individual company reviews to help you learn more before making a decision:Achieve, Affinity Federal Credit Union, Alliant Credit Union, American Express, Avant, Axos, Best Egg, Bethpage Federal Credit Union, BHG Financial, Blaze Credit Union, Blue Federal Credit Union, Boeing Employees' Credit Union, Citibank, Connexus Credit Union, Discover, ENT Credit Union, Fig Loans, First Tech Federal Credit Union, Greenstate Credit Union, Happy Money, Lake Michigan Credit Union, Laurel Road, LendingClub, LendingPoint, LendingUSA, Liberty Federal Credit Union, LightStream, Mariner, Money Key, Mountain America Credit Union, NASA Federal Credit Union, Navy Federal Credit Union, Netcredit, Old National Bank, OneMain, OppLoans, Patelco Credit Union, PenFed, Personify Financial, PNC Bank, Prosper, Reach Financial, Regions, Reprise, Rocket Loans, Santander, Service Federal Credit Union, SoFi, Summit Credit Union,TD Bank, Teachers Federal Credit Union, Truist, U.S. Bank, Universal Credit, Upgrade, Upstart, USAA, Wells Fargo, Zable. How We Chose the Best Personal Loans Investopedia collected more than 2,600 data points from 59 lenders, including traditional banks, credit unions, fintechs, and finance companies to evaluate and rank the best personal loan providers. We identified and collected 45 criteria, including APRs, loan amounts and terms, fees, customer experience, and more. Our criteria and ratings are also informed by speaking to hundreds of borrowers about their personal experiences with personal loan lenders and their views on the process. Research and data collection began on July 23 and concluded on October 18, 2024. We organized the 45 criteria into four categories. We then scored and
