---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/credit/credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:57.817188+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 21:35:42 GMT
---
Late or missing payments: Your payment history is the biggest factor in your FICOÂ®Â Score. A single late payment will impact your scores, but over time, its impact on your credit will decline. Multiple missed payments can significantly damage your credit, andÂ contacting your lenderÂ before that happens could help your situation. Managing your debt properly will only benefit your credit scores. In fact, most consumers who have the highest credit scores and pay their bills on time have theÂ highest average amount of debt. Credit utilization increased: By using more of your credit youâll increase your credit utilization ratio, which is the second most important factor in calculating your FICOÂ®Â Score. To calculate your credit utilization, add up the total debt or balances on all your credit cards, then add up the credit limits on all your cards and divide the total balance by the total credit limit. You can then multiply this number by 100 to see your credit utilization percentage. For example, if you have a $200 credit balance and your credit limit is $500, you would divide $200 by $500 and multiply that by 100 to total 40% credit utilization. Closed a credit card: Closing a credit card will reduce your available credit, which can increase your credit utilization ratio and cause your score to decrease. Another way that closing a credit card can impact your credit score is by reducing the length of your credit history. A closed account in good standing will remain on your credit report for 10 years and will continue to benefit your credit score.Â Closing your credit cardÂ may initially drop your scoresâbut itâll be temporary, and your scores will rebound as you continue healthy credit habits. With the FICOÂ® Score Simulator you can view the impact to your credit score if you miss a payment, close an account or increase your credit usage. Additionally, our "See Whatâs Changed" feature makes it easy to spot new information in your credit report. Youâll be able to quickly see changes in your total debt levels, modifications to accounts, the opening or closing of new loans and/or credit card accounts, new inquiries or credit checks in regard to applications for new loans or credit. These report changes will also include annotations so you can quickly see if theyâre helping or hurting your FICOÂ® Score. How much does a credit check affect your scores? When a company checks your credit report when you apply for new credit, such as a credit card or a loan, the process is called a "hard inquiry." This credit check remains on your credit for 2 years but has a short-term impact. After a few months, the impact to your credit scores should start to decrease. If you have multiple credit checks, outside of rate shopping, the impact to your credit scores could be greater. Credit scores do not start out at the lowest number (e.g., 350) or at the highest (e.g., 850)âor even at zero. EveryoneÂ starts out with no credit scoreÂ at all. A credit score can only be calculated if thereâs an account on your credit report with recent credit activity. Why donât you have a credit score? A FICOÂ® Score will develop after you haveÂ at least one account openÂ and recorded on your credit file for 6 months. A VantageScoreÂ® credit score could generate a score more quickly, as long as your credit report shows at least one account. If there are credit accounts on a credit report that havenât been active in the last 6 months, it may also take several months of activity to calculate credit scores. Itâs common for your credit score to beÂ different across the three bureaus. This can happen for many reasons. One reason is that while many companies often report to all three credit bureaus, some may
