---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/liability-vs-full-coverage-car-insurance/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:16.354773+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:55 GMT
---
other party, but you'll be on your own when it comes to your vehicle or injuries. - You won't have any coverage for incidents other than collisions. If your car is banged up due to hail or a collision with a deer, or if your car is stolen, your liability insurance will not cover you. - What Is Full Coverage? Full coverage generally refers to having comprehensive and collision insurance, as well as liability insurance. Because of that, if you want "full coverage," you'll want to read over the fine print of any insurance policy you pay for and make sure you're actually covered for everything you think you are. But typically, if you get full coverage for your vehicle, you will be covered for: Car accidents - Damage or injuries to property or people - Damage due to striking an animal - Theft - Vandalism - Damage from natural occurrences, such as if your car is struck by lightning, hail or a falling tree - Pros and Cons of Full Coverage If you're thinking of buying full coverage, there are a couple pros and cons to consider. Pros Coverage is more robust. Liability is more affordable insurance than full coverage, but if you inadvertently cause a car wreck and discover your insurer won't pay for your damages or medical bills, it could be costly. If you pay for full coverage, your insurer is more likely to pay for expenses if something bad happens to your car. - More peace of mind. You may feel the cost of full insurance is worth the peace of mind you'll have, knowing that if something goes wrong with your car, your insurance policy will probably be able to pay for most of the damages, minus the deductible. - Cons Premiums for full coverage are higher. Full coverage, because it potentially will pay more if something goes wrong, is more expensive and thus could be harder to budget for than liability. - There still may be blind spots in your coverage. Full coverage, as noted, is a generic term. If you buy full coverage from an insurer, you'll need to go over the fine print to make sure that, for instance, medical bills are paid. You may need additional insurance to make sure that medical bills are paid in the event of a car accident. - Stop overpaying for insurance When to Choose Liability vs. Full Coverage So should you choose liability or full coverage when you're buying car insurance? The general rule of thumb is that if you should buy full coverage if: You're driving a new car. New vehicles are typically quite costly, and you're putting yourself at much more financial risk by having minimal insurance coverage on a new vehicle. Further, many lenders actually require that borrowers purchase full coverage on financed vehicles. - It would be a financial crisis if you lost your car. If you would have trouble repairing or replacing the vehicle if something happened to it, you should consider getting full coverage. - You're leasing a car. As with vehicles that are financed with a loan, you will likely be required to have full coverage with a lease. - So is there ever a time to consider buying liability only instead of full coverage? Yes. It's a judgment call, but you may want to purchase liability in the following scenarios. You're on a very tight budget. If you simply feel that you can't afford to pay for full coverage, and you own your car outright or the lender is no longer requiring full coverage, you may decide that liability insurance is more practical. - You have an old car. Depending on the age and condition of your vehicle, the cost of full coverage might quickly eclipse its value. But having an older vehicle shouldn't make you automatically
