---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/savings-challenges-to-try-this-year/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:28.815055+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:02 GMT
---
what if every time you made an impulse purchase, went off budget or otherwise made a money move you swore you wouldn't, you put a dollar in the money mistake jar? The challenge is simple. If you promised yourself you wouldn't eat out for lunch this week, and you do, throw a dollar (or whatever amount works for you) in the jar. If, in a moment of impulse, you did some online shopping that wasn't budgeted for, throw a dollar in the jar. A dollar here and there won't offset the damage that routinely going off budget can do to your bank account, but it could help you reinforce good money habits and save a bit in the process. Learn more: Bad Money Habits and How to Break Them 9. No Dining Out Challenge If you tend to dine out often, cutting back could help you save quite a bit. This money challenge has you slash your dining out budget completely and then put the money you would've spent into savings. Consider starting your challenge small with a weekend or week. During that time, commit to not eating out at all. Try these tips to set yourself up for success: Pair this challenge with a pantry challenge, in which you challenge yourself to eat through everything in your pantry. - Search for easy weeknight recipes online. - Stock up your fridge with the supplies you need. - Consider prepping your meals in advance and reheating to resist the temptation to order in. - Last, transfer whatever money you typically spend on dining in a week into a savings account. Not sure how much you typically spend dining out each week? Take this opportunity to review your spending and tally up how much goes toward eating out. 10. Coffee Swap Challenge Perhaps you're not ready to go cold turkey on eating out entirely창or, perhaps you already mostly cook at home. In that case, try zeroing in on another common habit: grabbing a morning cup of coffee at a cafe. It's a small habit, but it can add up. The average cup of coffee may cost $3.37 and a latte may average around $5.60, according to data from Toast. If you grab a beverage out five days a week, that adds up to about $876 per year for a cup of coffee or $1,456 per year if a latte is your drink of choice. But how much will you truly save by making your own coffee at home? A pound of ground coffee costs around $9.14 on average, according to September 2025 data from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. With a pound of ground beans, you can brew about 25 cups of coffee. That comes out to about 37 cents a cup. Compared to grabbing your morning coffee on the go, that's a pretty good deal. Of course, if you can afford it and truly enjoy coffee out, there's nothing wrong with indulging now and then. But if you're looking for a straightforward way to funnel more money into savings in 2026, the coffee swap challenge may be worth a try. Make 2026 Your Best Financial Year Yet Whichever challenge you try창or if you choose to combine challenges to up your savings even more창know where to stash your funds. A high-yield savings account will help you earn interest on your savings. Spending less than you earn and saving the difference is key to boosting your financial health. Beyond completing a challenge, consider other financial moves you could make to build your savings up this year. If you haven't already, learn about how to start investing toward retirement and consider meeting with a financial planner for more personalized saving advice. Want to lower your monthly bills? We창ll negotiate bills for you and cancel unwanted subscriptions. Get startedAbout the author Evelyn Waugh
