---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/loans/articles/-/learn/how-can-student-loans-affect-credit-/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:08.783071+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
forbearance in certain circumstances. According to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a deferment is a “temporary pause to your student loan payments for specific situations such as active duty military service and reenrollment in school.” A forbearance is a “temporary postponement or reduction of your student loan payments because you are experiencing financial difficulty.” It’s important to understand payment plans. The payment plan of your loan will determine your minimum monthly payment, so it is important to fully understand what you will owe and at what terms, what you can responsibly afford to pay, and options if you find yourself struggling to make payments. For example, it may be possible to consolidate or refinance your loans or enter an income-driven repayment plan. Also, some private student loan services can modify loans or reduce interest rates if you’re struggling to make payments. There are many different types of student loans that have many different rules, so before applying for or accepting a student loan, be sure review the terms carefully and understand how the repayment plan will factor into your life. "If you accept the responsibility of student loans, it is a good idea to create a budget so that you understand your repayment plan, as well as your day-to-day expenses," said Mehdi-Barlas. For more information about what to know before you consider applying for a student loan, you may want to visit the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's Paying for College site. Sign up for a credit monitoring & ID theft protection product today! For $19.95 per month, you can know where you stand with access to your 3-bureau credit report. Sign up for Equifax CompleteTM Premier today!
