---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/lii/help
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:11:04.166547+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Contacting government agencies and officials A good overview of how government agencies are organized is provided by the US Government Manual and USA.gov A-Z Index of U.S. Government Departments and Agencies. In addition, most of the large Net directory services offer special sections on government. The offering from Infospace is particularly nice. Bringing resources to the attention of the LII We appreciate it when people take the trouble to notify us of newly available legal-information resources; use the "suggestions" category in the contact form. Our listing of and linking to other legal resources is governed by our judgment about the usefulness and quality of the content they provide. We do not attempt to be comprehensive and we are not a listing service. As a public site for legal information we tend to give preference to information providers who offer their services at or below cost. Purchasing or licensing an LII product If you want to arrange special licensing or redistribution terms, please use the "permissions" category in the contact form Linking to the LII site and/or reproducing its content elsewhere We grant permission to any site wishing to link to us for any purpose whatsoever; we simply ask that you not take steps to obscure or alter the apparent source of the information (as happens with some so-called framing practices) and that you give attribution to the LII as appropriate. We also permit reproduction of our pages in non-electronic media (like training workbooks) provided they are not offered for sale commercially; we encourage you to send us copies, as we are always curious about what people do with the resources we supply. All others wishing to reproduce our content in print or non-print media should contact us; while much of the material underlying the site is public, we do assert copyright in some aspects. A more complete statement of our credits and conditions of use is available.
