---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/events/2026/02/eighteenth-annual-microeconomics-conference
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:54:45.377280+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 09 Feb 2026 07:54:41 GMT
---
Event Description New Date – Rescheduled from November 2025 The Federal Trade Commission's Bureau of Economics and the Tobin Center for Economic Policy at Yale University will host the 18th Annual FTC Microeconomics Conference on February 24 and 25, 2026 in Washington, D.C. This event will bring together scholars working in areas related to the FTC’s antitrust, consumer protection, and public policy missions. This will be an in-person event with a live stream for those who want to view remotely. The scientific committee for the conference is: Avi Goldfarb (University of Toronto) - Matthew Grennan (Emory University) - Kevin Williams (Yale University) - Organizers: Samuel Kleiner (FTC) and Eric Spurlino (FTC) Staff Contact: Stephanie Aaron Sponsors This conference is sponsored by the Federal Trade Commission’s Bureau of Economics and the Tobin Center for Economic Policy at Yale University. Registration To register, please fill out the registration form with your name, email, and affiliation. You will receive a confirmation email when your registration is complete. We will use your email address to contact you with information about the conference and will share your name and email address with the conference co-sponsors. The FTC Act and other laws we administer permit the collection of your pre-registration contact information and the comments you file to consider and use in this proceeding as appropriate. For additional information, including routine uses permitted by the Privacy Act, see the Commission’s system for mailing lists. For more details, please see the FTC Privacy Policy. Attending the Workshop The conference is free and open to the public. Please arrive early with enough time to go through security. The security processing will include a metal detector and X-ray screening of all hand carried items. You must have a valid government issued photo ID (government badge, license, passport, etc.). The conference will follow the AEA’s code of professional conduct, and requires presenters to adhere to the Bureau of Economics' disclosure policies. These disclosures will be included in the presenters’ bios. Agenda Tuesday, February 24 8:30 a.m. Registration (Continental breakfast provided*) 9:00 a.m. Welcome Ted Rosenbaum (Federal Trade Commission) 9:15 a.m. Paper Session Chaired by Matthew Grennan (Emory University) Information Distortion in Label Design in the Over-the-Counter Drug Market Anastasiia Evdokimova (Yale University) Discussant: Christopher Conlon (New York University)Welfare Effects of Buyer and Seller Power Michael Rubens (UCLA Economics) co-authored with Mert Demirer (MIT Sloan) Discussant: Allan Collard-Wexler (Duke University)Combining Complements: Theory and Evidence from Cancer Treatment Innovation Rebekah Dix (Yale University) co-authored with Todd Lensman (Harvard Business School) Discussant: Amanda Starc (Northwestern University10:55 a.m. Break 11:25 a.m. Keynote Address, “Consumer Protection and Antitrust in Complex Markets” Matthew Grennan (Emory University) 11:55 a.m. Lunch (provided*) 1:00 p.m. FTC Policy and Research Session Chaired by Samuel Kleiner and Eric Spurlino (FTC) Loyalty Discounts and their Effects on Competition: FTC v. Surescripts Matthew Chesnes (Federal Trade Commission) Misrepresentations About Educational Investments: FTC v. Career Step Michel Grosz (Federal Trade Commission) Distributional Consequences of Privacy Regulation Ben Casner (Federal Trade Commission) co-authored with Matthew Leisten (Federal Trade Commission)Quantifying Clear and Conspicuous Disclosure Using Cognitive Economic Curves Katherine Chang (Federal Trade Commission) co-authored with Stefan Bucher (University of Cambridge), Andrew Caplin (New York University), Ryan Oprea (University of California, Berkeley), and Eric Spurlino (Federal Trade Commission)Economies of Scope from Shared Inputs Devesh Raval (Federal Trade Commission) co-authored with Paul Koh (Yonsei University)2:40 p.m. Break 3:00 p.m. Keynote Address, “Distributional Impacts of the Changing Retail Landscape” Kevin Williams (Yale University) 3:30 p.m. Break 3:50 p.m. Paper Session Chaired by Avi Goldfarb (University of Toronto) Algorithmic Pricing in Multifamily Rentals: Efficiency Gains or Price Coordination? Sophie Calder-Wang (The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania) co-authored with Gi Heung Kim (Boston College) Discussant: Kanishka Misra (Boston College)Designing Consent: Choice Architecture and Consumer Welfare in Data Sharing Chiara Farronato (Harvard Business School, NBER, and CEPR) co-authored with Tesary Lin (Boston
