---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/score-basics/credit-utilization-rate/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:28.553232+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:22 GMT
---
each statement period. They send you the statement at the same time, and your bill is due several weeks later. Because of this timing, you may have a high utilization rate even if you pay your bill in full. But you may be able to lower the reported balance and resulting utilization rate by making credit card payments before the end of each statement period. - Ask your card issuers to raise your limits. You may want to request a higher credit limit if you've had the card for a while, made your payments on time and won't run up the balance. Additionally, consider making a request after your income increases, your credit score improves or you pay off other debts. Credit limit increase requests sometimes lead to a hard inquiry, however, which might lower your credit scores a little temporarily. - Keep your reported income updated. Credit card issuers might increase your card's credit limit when your income rises, but they won't know unless you update your annual income in your online account. You also might be able to report your household income if you started sharing finances with someone since opening your card. - Use an installment loan to consolidate revolving debt. You might be able to use a personal loan or home equity loan to consolidate revolving debt, such as credit card and HELOC debts. In addition to lowering your utilization rates, you might benefit from a fixed interest rate and set repayment period. - Open new lines of credit. Getting a new credit card or line of credit increases your overall available credit. Many credit cards also offer intro bonuses and other perks. However, you should avoid opening new accounts solely to increase your available credit. - Don't close your credit cards. You may want to close credit cards that have an annual fee or if you tend to overspend. However, keeping credit cards open can help you maintain a lower utilization rate because their credit limits add to your overall available credit. - If you want to maintain a low credit utilization rate without timing your credit card payments, try to estimate how much you spend on credit cards each month. Multiply this by 10 and use that as a target for the available credit you want to have across your revolving accounts. You'll then be able to maintain your average spending while keeping your utilization rate around 10%. Compare personal loan rates Find APRs from 4.99% to 35.99% and flexible terms of 12 to 120 months. Loan amounts range from $1,000 up to $250,000, with funding available the same day or up to 7 days. Offers from our partners View all of our Best Personal Loans for 2026 to see what youâre likely to qualify for, and the rates and terms you might get. Frequently Asked Questions Check and Track Your Credit Utilization You can access your Experian credit report for free. You can use it to calculate your current utilization rate, track your overall utilization rate over time and look at each revolving account in your credit report to see the per-account utilization. You'll also receive FICOÂ® Score monitoring, which can alert you to significant changes in your credit. Instantly raise your FICOÂ® Score for free Use Experian BoostÂ® to get credit for the bills you already pay like utilities, mobile phone, video streaming services and now rent. No credit card required About the author Louis DeNicola is freelance personal finance and credit writer who works with Fortune 500 financial services firms, FinTech startups, and non-profits to teach people about money and credit. His clients include BlueVine, Discover, LendingTree, Money Management International, U.S News and Wirecutter. Read more from Louis
