---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/identity-theft/articles/-/learn/social-security-number-identity-theft/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:01.564847+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
appear legitimate and often involve something called spoofing. Spoofing is when an attacker creates a replica of the official website, email address or phone number of a trusted source, such as a bank, government agency or retail company. Sometimes the fraudulent website or email address will differ from the original by a single character. If you find yourself with an influx of emails or texts from unknown senders, it could be a sign you are being targeted for your personal information. Phone and texting scams. You may also receive robocalls or spam texts from identity thieves. Many use spoofing to imitate local area codes, government agencies, retail companies, banks or other trusted entities. Agencies like the IRS generally won’t make unsolicited calls asking for personal information like your SSN. 6 ways to protect yourself from Social Security number identity theft Although there’s no way to totally prevent identity theft if your Social Security number is stolen, the following strategies can help lessen your risk: Safeguard your SSN. Don’t carry your Social Security card with you. Instead, memorize your SSN and keep it secure at home. Never repeat your SSN aloud in public or around anyone you don’t trust, and always ask why and how it will be used before giving it out. - Shred paperwork with your SSN. Shred any documents that include your SSN or other personally identifiable information before you dispose of them. Pay special attention to paystubs, bank statements and loan documents, as well as W-2s and other IRS forms, as these may display your full SSN. - Watch out for phishing, smishing and spoofing. If you receive unsolicited communication, be sure to confirm that the related email addresses, websites and phone numbers are legitimate before providing any information or clicking a link. Messages from phishers may include notifications about problems with an account, warnings about suspicious activity or claims that you’re eligible for a government refund. Read these messages carefully — they will likely be vague and may include grammatical or spelling errors. Be especially skeptical of anyone claiming to represent a government agency such as the IRS. - Use strong passwords for your electronic devices. Be sure to use strong, complex passwords for your accounts and enable security measures like two-factor authentication when possible. You might also consider security software to help prevent malware from being installed on your device by phishing schemes, as well as other online threats. - Check your existing accounts. Unexplained activity on accounts in your name may be a sign your Social Security number is at risk. Be on the lookout for mysterious charges on your credit cards or strange withdrawals from your checking or savings account. - Consider purchasing identity protection. Identity protection services can be a useful addition to your financial toolbox: They may often track where your SSN or certain other personal data appear online. For example, you may be notified if your personal information is found on the dark web, or if someone using your personal information applies for a loan. Many services even monitor your credit reports to flag certain changes. If you spot identity theft from these alerts, the services may also offer identity theft restoration services to work on your behalf to help you recover from identity theft. - If you believe you may be a victim of Social Security number identity theft, you can file a police report or a Federal Trade Commission (FTC) identity theft report. This way, if someone uses your SSN to commit fraud, you will have a legal record of the suspected theft. You can get more information from the FTC’s toll-free identity theft hotline at 877-IDTHEFT (877-438-4338) or visit their website at www.ftc.gov/idtheft. If you suspect someone of committing fraud, waste or abuse, you can contact the Office of the Inspector General’s fraud hotline at 800-269-0271 or
