---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-1099-k/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:12.570020+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:15 GMT
---
What Is a 1099-K? Quick Answer IRS Form 1099-K lists business payments you receive from third-party payment services and credit and debit card processors plus income you receive from the sale of personal items if the payments meet the federal reporting threshold. IRS Form 1099-K shows business payments self-employed professionals receive from payment apps, online marketplaces and debit or credit cards. A 1099-K may also be issued if you receive income from the sale of personal items. Changes to IRS rules implemented in 2025 increased a key reporting threshold for issuing the forms, meaning fewer taxpayers may receive one in the mail this year. If you keep good records throughout the year, the 1099-K forms you receive shouldn't include any information you don't already have. Here's a quick rundown on what 1099-Ks are used for, when you should expect to receive one (or more) and how the income reported on them affects your tax bill. What Is a 1099-K Used For? Debit and credit card processors and third-party payment services such as Venmo, Cash App and PayPal use Form 1099-K to report business transactions. If you're a solopreneur, contractor or other self-employed professional, you'll receive a 1099-K from each service that processed payments reaching the IRS threshold (more on that below) for the current tax year. Full-time employees who earn only W-2 income won't receive 1099-Ks to file with their tax return. However, if you have a side gig in addition to being traditionally employed, you may receive one or more for your side business. A 1099-K may also be issued if you sell personal belongingsâsuch as a car you're replacing for a newer model or the treadmill that's been collecting dust in your basement for yearsâif the buyer pays you using a method (like PayPal) that requires the payment service to issue a 1099-K. Myth buster: Personal transactions like using your Venmo account to collect money from the parents in your child's second-grade class for the teacher's end-of-year gift aren't subject to the same rules and shouldn't appear on a 1099-K. Compare tax preparation services You could save time preparing your taxes, and get assistance maximizing your refund. Plus, many services provide audit assistance to give you confidence when you file. What Are the New 1099-K Thresholds? Under federal law, all credit and debit card payments you receive from clients must be reported on Form 1099-K, regardless of the transaction amount or number of payments you receive. Additionally, payment apps like Venmo, CashApp or PayPal and online marketplaces must issue a 1099-K if you receive more than $20,000 in payments and 200 transactions during the year. The $20,000 and 200 transaction limit represents a change from tax years 2023 and 2024, when third-party settlement organizations (TPSOs) had to issue 1099-Ks to anyone who received payments of $600 or more. Tip: States may have lower reporting thresholds for TPSOs than the federal government. If you live in a state with a lower threshold, you may receive a 1099-K even if you received less than $20,000 and had fewer than 200 transactions. When Are 1099-K Forms Sent? All 1099-K forms must be issued by January 31 for the previous tax year. For example, companies issuing 1099-Ks for the 2025 tax year must send them by January 31, 2026. Copies must be sent to you and the IRS. Do I Need to Pay Taxes on 1099-K Income? It depends. The answer is often yes, but there are some exceptions. Here's a quick overview of what to expect. When You Need to Pay Taxes on 1099-K Income Income reported on a 1099-K falls into one of two general categories: business or personal. All legitimate business income is subject to federal and state taxes. If you're self-employed, 1099-K forms aren't a substitute for keeping your own records. Ultimately, it's up to you to accurately
