---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-does-a-personal-loan-impact-your-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:05.090144+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:34 GMT
---
How Does a Personal Loan Affect Your Credit Score? Quick Answer A personal loan that is properly managed can help you build credit, but a mismanaged loan can hurt your credit scores. Personal loans impact various credit score factors, like your payment history and credit mix. A personal loan (or any other form of credit) can hurt your credit if you manage it poorly. But if you handle a personal loan responsibly, there are several ways it could promote long-term credit score improvement. The extent of that improvement will depend on your credit history and the other debts detailed in your credit reports. Read on for details. What Is a Personal Loan? When you take out a personal loan, the lender provides you with a lump sum of cash that you can use for virtually any purpose you choose, with the understanding that you'll pay it backâwith interest and possible feesâin a series of regular installment payments. Unlike mortgages and auto loans, most personal loans are unsecured debtsâthat is, they are not backed by collateral such as a financed car or home. For this reason, personal loans may carry somewhat higher interest rates than car loans or other secured credit, but their annual percentage rates (APRs) are typically far lower than those for credit cards. How Applying for a Personal Loan Affects Your Credit Applying for a personal loan affects credit scores much the same way applying for a credit card does: The application triggers a credit check known as a hard inquiry, which typically causes a small, temporary decline in your credit score. If your application is approved and you receive the loan, your credit score could drop still a few more points, as the new credit line decreases the overall average age of your accounts. There are, however, several ways a personal loan can help your credit, if managed responsibly. Compare personal loan rates Find APRs from 4.99% to 35.99% and flexible terms of 12 to 120 months. Loan amounts range from $1,000 up to $250,000, with funding available the same day or up to 7 days. Offers from our partners View all of our Best Personal Loans for 2026 to see what youâre likely to qualify for, and the rates and terms you might get. How Personal Loans Can Help Your Credit When managed properly, taking out a personal loan can help you improve your credit in several ways. Lower Credit Utilization Rate Using a personal loan for debt consolidationâspecifically, applying funds borrowed at a relatively low interest rate to pay down higher-interest credit card debtâcould improve your credit scores. That's because reducing credit card balances also reduces your credit utilization rate, or the percentage of available credit you're using. Your credit utilization rate is responsible for about 30% of your FICOÂ® ScoreÎ, and utilization rates greater than about 30% tend to do more significant damage to your scores. So using a personal loan to pay down balances that exceed that amount could help your scores. Additional Positive Payments The factor with the greatest influence on credit scores is debt payment history, which is responsible for about 35% of your FICOÂ® Score, the score used by 90% of top lenders. A single payment that's late by 30 days or more can do serious harm to your credit scores, but every timely payment you make on a personal loan (or any of your other debts) adds to your positive payment history and helps promote credit score improvement. Increased Credit Mix When lenders evaluate potential borrowers' creditworthiness, they like to see evidence of experience with multiple accounts and different kinds of debt, including a combination of revolving credit and installment loans. This experience is summed up in a credit scoring factor called credit mix, which accounts for about 10% of your FICOÂ® Score. If a new personal loan increases
