---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-the-dark-web/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:03.506641+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:28 GMT
---
browse the dark web, be mindful that you don't know where a .onion address will take you. You could unwittingly wind up on a site that tries to install malware on your device. - Use unique passwords for your accounts. If your account information is stolen, it's only dangerous if an identity thief can actually use it. Creating unique passwords for all your online accounts can help limit the impact of a single data breach. If you suspect your account information may have been compromised, change your password immediately. - Update your passwords. Regularly changing your passwords even in the absence of a threat can also make your account information less useful. A password manager can help you create and store strong passwords, and may even perform regular security checkups for you. - Sign up for dark web monitoring. A dark web monitoring service will look for your information on the dark web and inform you if it finds anything. The forewarning will let you know which information is compromised, and gives you a chance to take steps to secure your identity and accounts. - Lock or freeze your credit reports. Locking or freezing your credit reports can keep someone from opening an account in your name, even if they have your personal information. - There are other ways to protect your information online as well, such as being mindful of what you share on social media, closing unused accounts and avoiding phishing attacks. Get a Free Dark Web Scan While there's no way to ensure all your information stays private, putting protective measures in place can help. Knowing if and when your information is compromised can also help you respond quicklyâbefore too much damage is done. Experian offers a free, one-time dark web scan for your Social Security number, email and phone number. If you want ongoing dark web surveillance, it's one of the many benefits included with an Experian Premium membership. Is your info on the dark web? Internet criminals buy and sell personal data on the dark web to commit fraud. Could they have your info? Find out with a free Dark Web Scan. Run a free scanAbout the author Louis DeNicola is freelance personal finance and credit writer who works with Fortune 500 financial services firms, FinTech startups, and non-profits to teach people about money and credit. His clients include BlueVine, Discover, LendingTree, Money Management International, U.S News and Wirecutter. Read more from Louis
