---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/faqs/preapproved-credit-offers/opt-out/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:02.229885+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
more debt than you need or can afford. - Risk of identity theft: If criminals steal a preapproved credit offer from your mailbox, they could combine it with other stolen personal information, such as your date of birth and Social Security number (which are not found in preapproved offers themselves), to seek credit in your name. - How to Opt Out of Preapproved Credit Offers There are actually two types of credit offers you're likely to see in your mailbox (or your online inbox): firm credit offers based on credit report information and direct-mail marketing appeals that are sent more broadly. Here's how to deal with each. How to Opt Out of Firm Credit Offers To opt out of preapproved credit and insurance offer lists, call 888-5-OPTOUT (888-567-8688) or submit a request online at OptOutPrescreen.com. You'll need to provide your name, Social Security number and date of birth along with the request. You can opt out of prescreened offers for five years using the phone or online option. If you want a permanent opt-out, you'll need to complete and mail in a form you can print from the website or request by mail using the phone line. The OptOutPrescreen phone line and website are run cooperatively by Experian, TransUnion, Equifax and Innovis. Submitting one request removes you from lists maintained by all four bureaus. How to Opt Out of Other Direct Marketing Offers Credit and insurance solicitations are not always based on credit criteria, so opting out of preapproved offers won't necessarily halt all mailings and phone offers of those products. You can further reduce the number of unsolicited offers you receive (for financial products and many others) by doing the following: Visit DMAchoice.org to create an account with the Direct Marketing Association (DMA) and decide which mail you want to receive from DMA members. There's a service fee for removing your name from target lists for 10 yearsâ$6 if you place the request online, $7 if you submit it by postal mail. - Request to be taken off non-DMA mailing and marketing lists, such as those by Epsilon, RetailMeNot and Valpak. - Add your phone number to the National Do Not Call Registry. - Frequently Asked Questions The Bottom Line Depending on your needs, preapproved credit offers can help you sort through options or add needless clutter to your life. The ability to opt out (or back in) to these offers can help you regulate the volume of unsolicited information you receive. Whatâs on your credit report? Stay up to date with your latest credit informationâand get your FICOÂ® Score for free. Get your free reportNo credit card required About the author Jim Akin is freelance writer based in Connecticut. With experience as both a journalist and a marketing professional, his most recent focus has been in the area of consumer finance and credit scoring. Read more from Jim
