---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/does-paying-utility-bills-help-your-credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:28.469726+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:27 GMT
---
Equifax and TransUnion, it's certain that if a lender uses a score based on data from those credit reporting agencies, your utility bill payments won't factor into the score they see. Can Utility Bills Hurt My Credit? Utility companies can send unpaid bills to collection agencies. This won't happen when one payment is slightly late; rather, if you miss multiple payments or leave a bill unpaid for months, the provider may hire a separate company to collect the debt. When you don't pay a bill for six months or more, the provider may charge off the account instead, assuming you're not going to pay. Both a charge-off and an account in collections will stay on your credit report for seven years and hurt your credit score. Additionally, the National Consumer Telecom & Utilities Exchange (NCTUE) is a specialty consumer reporting agency that collects and shares customer data, including payment history, among its 95 utility and telecommunications company members. Say you have an unpaid balance with a natural gas provider. If it's a member of the exchange, it may share that information with other providers, which can affect whether another natural gas utility decides to do business with youâor require you to pay a deposit to do so. The Bottom Line Utility payments are a fact of life, but it's possible to put them to good use. Using Experian Boost could lead to a quick uptick in your Experian credit scores, if you have enough on-time payments to include in your credit report. You also have the opportunity to save money on utility payments by using Experian's BillFixer tool, which will negotiate with your utility providers to lower your monthly bills. Instantly raise your FICOÂ® Score for free Use Experian BoostÂ® to get credit for the bills you already pay like utilities, mobile phone, video streaming services and now rent. No credit card required About the author Brianna McGurran is a freelance journalist and writing teacher based in Brooklyn, New York. Most recently, she was a staff writer and spokesperson at the personal finance website NerdWallet, where she wrote "Ask Brianna," a financial advice column syndicated by the Associated Press. Read more from Brianna
