---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/3-steps-to-take-if-your-social-security-number-has-been-stolen/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:08.073853+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:50 GMT
---
Box 9554 Allen, TX 75013 | ---|---|---|---| TransUnion | Credit freeze instructions | 800-916-8800 | TransUnionP.O. Box 160 Woodlyn, PA 19094 | ---|---|---|---| Equifax | Credit freeze instructions | 888-298-0045 | Equifax Information Services LLCP.O. Box 105788 Atlanta, GA 30348-5788 | ---|---|---|---| To place a fraud alert with Experian, simply visit the Experian Fraud Alert Center, select the type of alert you need, then specify how long you want it to last. An initial fraud alert will last for one year unless you renew it. An extended fraud alert, which is designed for victims of identity fraud, lasts seven years. You can remove a fraud alert at any time. 3. Contact Companies Where Your Social Security Number Has Been Used Fraudulently The companies you'll need to reach out to will depend on the type of identity theft. Below are some organizations you might need to contact: New creditors: If someone used your Social Security number to open a credit card or loan in your name, you'll want to contact the creditor and explain what happened. They can shut down the account to prevent scammers from doing more damage. - Existing creditors: You have the right to dispute fraudulent charges if an unauthorized person accumulates debt in your name. That can happen if a con artist uses your credit card without your consent. - Government agencies: You may need to contact the Social Security Administration, IRS, department of motor vehicles or other government agency if your Social Security number was used to create fraudulent identification records. - Medical providers: Someone can use your Social Security number or insurance information to receive medical care in your name. That could lead to unwanted medical bills that need to be resolved. - How to Protect Your Social Security Number While cleaning up the mess caused by identity theft, don't forget to look to the future. The best way to prevent fraud is to keep your Social Security number safe. If identity theft does happen, the sooner you catch it, the better so you can minimize impact to your credit and finances. Here are some tips to protect your Social Security number: Check your credit report for suspicious activity at least once a year. You can get your credit report for free from Experian and through AnnualCreditReport.com. - Periodically review your Social Security statements for fraudulent activity. - Don't carry your Social Security card with you or store your SSN in your phone. - Don't share your SSN unless you've verified the recipient, such as a lender or insurance provider. - Shred documents that contain your SSN or other personal information. - Use strong passwords and multifactor authentication to protect sensitive online documents. - Don't do your banking or access personal information while using public Wi-Fi. - Use a privacy scan service to remove your information from public websites. - Consider an identity protection service, such as what's available with a paid Experian premium membership. - Learn more: What You Can Do to Avoid Identity and Credit Fraud The Bottom Line Identity theft can take a financial toll and cause emotional stress to boot. As the old saying goes, an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. Do your best to safeguard your personal information. If a breach does happen, there are steps you can take to restore your good nameâand credit. Monitor your credit for free Credit monitoring can help you detect possible identity fraud, and can prevent surprises when you apply for credit. Get daily notifications when changes are detected. Get free monitoringAbout the author Marianne Hayes is a longtime freelance writer who's been covering personal finance for nearly a decade. She specializes in everything from debt management and budgeting to investing and saving. Marianne has written for CNBC, Redbook, Cosmopolitan, Good Housekeeping and more. Read more from Marianne
