---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-debt-relief-companies-8763179
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:00.590678+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
sued while pursuing debt settlement are “quite low,” but if a creditor does bring a lawsuit against you, the company has attorneys on staff to help negotiate your settlement to a better resolution (but they won’t represent you in court). This can bring some peace of mind to debt settlement, even if no attorneys end up getting involved. New Era is available in most states across the country and is easy to get ahold of, with live online chat to answer any questions you may have. It earned a high score in Investopedia’s combined customer satisfaction rating, with 4.6 out of 5 stars. The company has no open complaints with the CFPB. New Era Debt Solutions is based in Camarillo, California. Read our full New Era Debt Solutions review. Fees and Costs Your experience with New Era starts with a free consultation. Then, if you think debt settlement and New Era are the right way for you to become debt-free, you’ll need to open a savings account with a monthly fee of $18.95. You’ll make monthly payments into that account to fund your settlement offers. If any of your debts are successfully settled, New Era will charge 15% to 23% of the enrolled debt. Best for Accessible Customer Service : Accredited Debt Relief Investopedia's Rating 3.7 out of 5 stars Accredited Debt Relief Services: Debt settlement, debt consolidation loansDebt settlement fee: Up to 25% of enrolled debtMinimum debt required: $10,000 Learn More (opens in a new tab) Pros & Cons Pros Customer service available 7 days a week Excellent customer reviews Accredited by three reputable agencies Cons Requires at least $10,000 of debt Savings account fees are not disclosed Unavailable to residents in 11 states Why We Chose It Accredited Debt Relief (a division of Beyond Finance) is our number one choice for customer service for a few reasons: It provides a variety of ways to get in touch with customer support, with great daily availability, and it has top-notch reviews from many satisfied customers. Customer service is available by phone, email, and live web chat (web chat is only available through the Beyond Finance website). Accredited Debt Relief has better availability than many other companies—you can get in touch with them from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. EST on weekdays, and 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. EST on weekends. Beyond Finance offers a mobile app (a rare feature), available for iPhone and Android, although it’s not clear if customers of Accredited Debt Relief can use it. Accredited Debt Relief earned one of the highest combined customer satisfaction ratings among all of the debt settlement companies we researched, at 4.86 out of 5. It and/or Beyond Finance also hold accreditations from a variety of professional organizations: ACDR, IAPDA, and Consumer Debt Relief Initiative (CDRI). Accredited Debt Relief was founded in 2011 and is based in Houston, Texas. Read our full Accredited Debt Relief review. Fees and Costs Accredited Debt Relief’s service begins with a free consultation. The company will negotiate with your creditors to attempt to settle your debts for less than you owe. You’ll be charged $10.75 per month for the associated savings account, in which you’ll make deposits to build up your settlement fund. If Accredited Debt Relief is able to negotiate a settlement and you agree to the terms, you’ll be charged up to 25% of the enrolled debt. Tip You may also be offered debt consolidation loans through Accredited Debt Relief’s partners, but we don’t recommend getting a loan this way. Instead, check with a variety of debt consolidation loan lenders to find the lowest rates you can get before making a decision. Best for Customer Satisfaction : TurboDebt Investopedia's Rating 4.7 out of 5 stars Services: Debt settlementDebt settlement fee: 15% to 25% of enrolled debtMinimum debt required: $7,500 Learn More (opens in a new
