---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/20-types-of-identity-theft-and-fraud/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:50.839144+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:50 GMT
---
will always be made by mail. "Authorities" insisting on immediate paymentâespecially in the form of gift cards or electronic funds transferâmay well be scammers. Learn more: Top Scams Targeting Seniors 8. Child Identity Theft Child identity theft is any kind of identity theft that targets minors. It can be especially difficult to detect child identity theft because the telltale signs may go undetected until the child applies for credit, usually after age 18. How this type of fraud happens: Criminals may be able to use minor children's Social Security numbers and other credentials to take out illicit credit card accounts and to commit other forms of identity theft, much as they do with adults' personal information. How to avoid it: Children don't normally have credit reports, but as a parent or guardian, you can obtain one for each child at the three national credit bureaus (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax). You also have the right to freeze your child's credit report to help protect them from credit fraud. Learn more: How to Protect Your Child From Identity Theft 9. Tax Identity Theft Tax identity theft is when someone uses your personal information to carry out tax fraud. How this type of fraud happens: The most common form of tax identity theft occurs when a criminal uses your Social Security number and other personal information to file a tax return in your name so they can steal your refund. Fraudsters can also use your stolen credentials to get jobs they're legally ineligible for, which may cause their earnings to be logged as your taxable income. How to avoid it: Understand that the IRS always makes its first official outreach by postal mail, so be skeptical of any phone call, email or text supposedly from the IRS that isn't preceded by a letter. Tax fraudsters often harvest information by posing as IRS representatives, using email, text or phone calls. Their goal is to trick victims into disclosing their SSNs and other personal details with false promises to expedite a refund or prevent an audit, for example. If you get a letter from the IRS, read it carefully and follow up; if it concerns activity that's unfamiliar to you, identity theft could be in play. 10. Biometric Identity Theft Biometric ID theft hijacks security measures such as facial recognition and fingerprint recognition, which use physical characteristics to unlock computers, phones, tablets and other secured devices. How this type of fraud happens: Criminals may use high-resolution photos, fingerprints lifted from glassware or other facsimiles of your physical traits to gain access to your devices and the personal data they contain. They may also link your personal information to their own fingerprints, faces or other biometric identifiers when attempting to impersonate you. How to avoid it: Replicating your physical traits to unlock your devices is relatively difficult, and enabling biometric security measures can help safeguard your data. In case your device is stolen, familiarize yourself with the procedures for locking it remotely so thieves can't readily access its contents, change passwords or assign new biometrics to its security settings. 11. Synthetic Identity Theft Synthetic identity theft is a form of fraud where an identity thief combines stolen information from one victim with other (real or invented) information to compile a new, false identity. How this type of fraud happens: Synthetic identity theft occurs when criminals merge elements of your personal information with those of one or more other victims to create a fictitious identity. They may get their hands on victims' information through phishing, for example. Crimes committed through synthetic identity theft can be hard to detect because no single victim is likely to be aware of the full extent of the fraudulent activity. How to avoid it: Monitor your credit reports and financial accounts for unusual activity. Also watch out for and consider following up
