---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/credit/score/articles/-/learn/how-much-house-can-you-afford/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:25.212753+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
well as the closing costs associated with your home purchase, are all additional factors you'll need to consider when calculating how much house you can afford to buy. What credit scores are needed to buy a house? Although there's no specific credit score required to buy a house, there is a general range that lenders look for when deciding whether to offer you a mortgage. The exact range needed to buy a house can vary, but lenders generally prefer credit scores of 620 or above and may reject anything below 580. Your credit scores may also affect which mortgage types you qualify for and at what terms. In other words, higher credit scores generally mean you'll have access to more loan options and you're likely to receive better interest rates and more favorable terms, including a lower down payment. Additionally, your credit scores can affect whether you're required to purchase private mortgage insurance (PMI) and, if so, how much. There are a few different types of mortgages you can apply for, but the most common are conventional/fixed-rate, interest-only and adjustable-rate mortgages; FHA loans; and VA loans. Several months before you apply for a home loan, it's a good idea to take a look at your credit scores and credit reports. How does my DTI ratio affect buying a house? In addition to your credit scores, your DTI ratio is an important factor in figuring out how much house you can afford. To calculate this number, tally your various debts — including credit card bills and outstanding student, personal, auto and other types of loans — and divide that number by your gross monthly income. Your gross income is the amount you earn before withholding taxes. Multiply the resulting number by 100 to obtain a percentage, and this represents your DTI ratio. Like credit scores, the exact percentage an individual lender wants to see can vary, but federal home-lending guidelines require a DTI ratio of 43% or lower. Mortgage lenders use your DTI ratio to help determine your loan terms and interest rates because it provides an indication of how much more debt you are able to take on. In other words, having a higher DTI ratio can make it more difficult to secure a mortgage with favorable rates. It's also important to remember that there is often a correlation between your DTI ratio and your credit scores. In some cases, carrying a large amount of debt compared to your gross income can negatively affect your credit scores. How much money do I need for a down payment? The size of your down payment is important, as it can impact your interest rate. A bigger down payment will typically lead to a lower interest rate, because the lender knows that the more equity (or cash) you have in the property, the less likely you are to stop paying your mortgage and walk away from the property. For most conventional loans, if you want to avoid paying PMI, you will need to put down at least 20% of the purchase price. Lenders use something called a loan-to-value (LTV) ratio when considering your down payment, which is calculated by dividing the amount of the loan by the appraised property value. For example, if you're buying a home valued at $100,000 and you make a 20% down payment ($20,000), the LTV ratio would be $80,000 (the amount of the loan) divided by $100,000, or 80%. If you're able to increase your down payment to 30%, the LTV ratio would drop to 70%, and the lender might offer you a lower interest rate. What other costs should I consider? It's important to note that there are a number of expenses that come with buying a home that have nothing to do with the down payment or the mortgage. These include everything from transfer taxes, attorney
