---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/loans/personal/bad-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:40.994222+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 16:22:33 GMT
---
Personal loans for bad credit Even with bad credit, you can still qualify for a personal loan. Checking loan offers takes just a few minutes and doesn't impact your credit. Compare personal loans for bad credit from our partners As of February 2026, compare personal loans with APRs as low as 6.7%, loan amounts up to $50,000 and 1-day funding options available. Best for non-traditional credit review (662 reviews)Rated 4.64 out of 5 stars, 662 reviewsEst. APR | 6.70 - 35.99% | ---|---| Term | 36 - 60 mo | ---|---| Loan amount | $1,000 - $50,000 | ---|---| Est. monthly payment | $31 - $1,806 | ---|---| Best for peer-to-peer loans (113 reviews)Rated 4.71 out of 5 stars, 113 reviewsEst. APR | 8.99 - 35.99% | ---|---| Term | 36 - 60 mo | ---|---| Loan amount | $2,000 - $50,000 | ---|---| Est. monthly payment | $64 - $1,806 | ---|---| Best for larger loans (130 reviews)Rated 4.45 out of 5 stars, 130 reviewsRecommended FICOÂ® ScoreÎ Poor - Good Est. APR | 9.99 - 35.99% | ---|---| Term | 36 - 60 mo | ---|---| Loan amount | $1,000 - $35,000 | ---|---| Est. monthly payment | $32 - $1,264 | ---|---| Best for in-person support (1009 reviews)Rated 4.69 out of 5 stars, 1009 reviewsEst. APR | 18.00 - 35.99% | ---|---| Term | 36 - 60 mo | ---|---| Loan amount | $1,500 - $20,000 | ---|---| Est. monthly payment | $54 - $723 | ---|---| You could save up to $5,676* with a low, fixed-rate personal loan, even with bad credit High-interest credit card | Personal loan with bad credit | ---|---| Balance | $11,700 | $11,700 | ---|---|---| Monthly payment | $401for 60 months | $306for 60 months | ---|---|---| Average interest rate | 32.99% | 19.34% | ---|---|---| Total paid with interest | $24,018 | $18,342 | ---|---|---| *Estimated interest savings: $5,676 | Experian could help find the right bad credit personal loan for you Itâs free Check your loan options for freeâit wonât hurt your credit scores. Save on fees Get matched to lenders that offer no application fees and no prepayment penalties. Look for these labels on your matched loan offers. Bad credit? Whether you have a low credit score or no credit history, we may have options. Get cash fast at competitive rates Compare rates across multiple lenders and get your loan fastâwith some same-day funding available. Get prequalified Find out how much you can borrow before you apply. Getting prequalified helps you better compare options. Loans from $1,000 to $50,000 From small loans to funding a big project that fits your budget and needs, Experian has you covered. Why trust Experian for personal loans with bad credit? Shop trusted lenders all in one place Experian works with reputable lenders to provide consumers with the best options. Our model Experian offers loan options tailored to your credit profile that could improve your chances for approval. Security Experian uses bank-level encryption and data protection to keep your information safe.
