---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/stocks-4427785
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:04.005572+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
of its risk and returns. Floating stock, is the number of shares of stock a company has that are actively being traded by the public. It is generally referred to as “float.” A secondary offering can refer to when a major investor sells their stock on the public market or when a company issues additional stock after its IPO. The former just puts more shares onto the market, while the latter creates more overall shares to raise additional funds for the company. A fractional share is ownership of a portion of a single share of stock. This allows investors to buy stocks even if the price of their individual shares is extremely high, such as is the case with companies like Berkshire Hathaway. Equity compensation is when employees of a company are paid stock, stock options, or a similar type of investment. By tying the employee’s compensation to the stock price, they are meant to encourage the employee to work to maximize shareholder value. A meme stock is broadly any stock that has gained substantial popularity and investment online through social media. The term was popularized after investment in retailer Gamestop was driven through popularity on the r/wallstreetbets subreddit. An IPO lock-up is a contractually specified period prohibiting large shareholders from selling their shares for a specified period of time after a company has its IPO. Lock-up periods are meant to stop major shareholders from selling large numbers of shares early on and pushing down the stock price early on. New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). "Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. BRK.A." Accessed Jan. 22, 2022 Yahoo! Finance. "Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI). Historical Data." Accessed Jan. 14, 2022. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. "Stocks." Accessed June 28, 2021.
