---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-apply-for-a-credit-card-with-bad-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:56.475668+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:39 GMT
---
How to Apply for a Credit Card With Bad Credit You may have fewer options if you want a new credit card and have a bad credit scoreâbut there are still good cards available. Some even come with rewards and have low fees. You can also use your new credit cards for bad credit to improve your credit scores, making it easier to qualify for other cards and more favorable loans later. What to Do Before You Apply for a Credit Card You can start by checking your FICOÂ® ScoreÎ for free with Experian. It's a good first step because submitting a credit card application can lead to a hard inquiry, which could lower your credit score slightly. With this in mind, you might not want to submit an application unless you're fairly confident you'll get approved. But there are ways to find credit cards that are a good fit without hurting your credit score. If you have a bad score, such as a FICOÂ® Score below 580, one option is to look for preapproved credit card offers. You might receive these in the mail or from your current financial institutions. If you've gotten these offers, it's because you've been prescreened and meet the card issuer's requirements to extend a firm offer of credit. Credit card issuers might also let you request a credit card prequalification. Don't be thrown off if the website says preapproval rather than prequalificationâsome card issuers use the two terms interchangeably. When you submit a prequalification, the card issuer reviews your basic information and may invite you to apply for certain cards. You may be presented with several card offers, but if you don't get prequalified, you might want to look for options from other card issuers. Both credit card preapprovals and prequalifications result in a soft credit inquiry, which won't hurt your credit scores. Neither one is a guarantee of approval; however, if your creditworthiness hasn't gotten worse since you were preapproved or prequalified, there's a good chance you can get the card. Preapprovals and prequalifications aside (they're not always an option), you could focus on credit cards that are generally available to people with low credit scores. What Type of Credit Card Can You Get With Bad Credit? Secured and subprime credit cards, tailored to those who have little credit history or are working to rebuild their credit from past mishaps, could be your best option. They work in similar ways, and there are many cards to choose from within each category. Secured Cards Secured credit cards are often for people who are brand new to credit or have poor credit. When you open a secured card, you need to send the card issuer a refundable security depositâthat's where the name comes from. The security deposit limits the card issuer's risk and will usually determine your card's credit limit. Many cards have a minimum $200 security deposit, but you can also send more if you want a higher limit. Aside from the required deposit, secured cards work just like other credit cards. Some of the best secured cards even offer rewards, and a few don't have an annual fee. Subprime Cards Subprime cards are unsecured cards for people who have bad ("subprime") credit. These could be a good option if you don't want to tie up your money with a security deposit. Review the card's terms and fees carefully before applying, however. Some subprime cards have an application fee, along with annual or monthly fees. They may also be difficult to manage if the card issuer doesn't offer an intuitive online interface or good customer service. You'll also likely receive a low credit limit, although that may be increased over time if you use your card responsibly. Cards with Alternative Underwriting Another option may be to look for card issuers that use alternative underwriting
