---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-get-a-debt-consolidation-loan/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:46.059408+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:44 GMT
---
the cards, you could rack up new charges on your newly paid off accounts and end up with more debt than when you started. - Your debt balances are low: If you can pay off your existing debt in less than a year, the savings from a debt consolidation loan may be too minimal to be worth pursuing. - 2. Determine How Much You'll Need While you're at it, take a close look at your debts to figure out exactly how much you'll want to consolidate. Make a list of all the debt accounts you plan to include, along with their payoff amounts, interest rates and monthly payments. Add up your payment amounts to determine the total amount of your consolidation loan. Next, tally up your current monthly payments to calculate an affordable payment amount with your new loan. Aim to find a debt consolidation loan with terms that fit comfortably within your budget, ideally with a substantially lower interest rate. Learn more: Personal Loan Do's and Don'ts Compare personal loan rates Find APRs from 4.99% to 35.99% and flexible terms of 12 to 120 months. Loan amounts range from $1,000 up to $250,000, with funding available the same day or up to 7 days. Offers from our partners View all of our Best Personal Loans for 2026 to see what youâre likely to qualify for, and the rates and terms you might get. 3. Check Your Credit There's no specific credit score you must meet to qualify for a debt consolidation loan. But generally speaking, the higher your score, the better your odds of approval and favorable terms. Finding out what range your credit score falls into can help you understand where you stand and what APR you might get. You can start by accessing your Experian credit report and FICOÂ® ScoreÎ for free. You can also get free weekly copies of your credit reports from Equifax and TransUnion at AnnualCreditReport.com. Once you have these, you'll see what lenders see when evaluating your application and setting your rate. Look over your report for issues and, if necessary, take steps to improve your credit. 4. Compare Debt Consolidation Loans It's a good idea to shop multiple lenders and compare different loan offers to find the best possible deal. When you find the loan you want, prequalify first to check your chances of approval without affecting your credit score. Consider the following factors as you compare loan offers. Interest rates: Since a debt consolidation loan is supposed to save you money, it's important to make sure your new interest rate is lower than your existing rates. Remember, rates vary by lender, so check your own bank, credit unions and online lenders to get a broad range of rates and terms available. You can also check Experian's marketplace for a wide variety of debt consolidation loan offers. - Loan fees: Keep an eye out for loan origination fees, which range from 1% to 12% and can offset the savings from a lower interest rate. Some lenders waive the fee for borrowers with good or excellent credit. Also check for prepayment penalties, which can cost up to 2% if you pay off your loan early. - Total loan cost: Before formally applying for the loan, consider your potential savings in the long run. For example, let's say you have $10,000 in high-interest credit card debt with an average APR of 29%. You'd have to make payments of around $419 per month to pay off the balance in three years, with interest charges totaling $5,086. If you consolidated this debt into a new loan with a 12% APR over the same period, your payment would drop to $332 and your interest charges would plummet to $1,957, saving you $3,129. - 5. Apply for a Debt Consolidation Loan Once you find the best loan offer,
