---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-identity-theft/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:27.402047+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:23 GMT
---
account on your credit reports - Bills for an account you didn't open - Collection calls for a debt you don't owe - Recent credit inquiries when you haven't recently applied for credit - A sudden drop in your credit score - Unfamiliar medical bills or explanation of benefits letters - Expected mail goes missing - Duplicate return alert when filing your tax return - Learn more: How to Check for Identity Theft How Identity Theft Can Affect You There are several different ways identity theft can impact your credit and financial situation, and in some cases, the ramifications can be severe. Here are just a few examples. Actions Identity Thieves Take | How It Affects You | ---|---| Open fraudulent credit cards in your name | Your credit suffers as the thieves rack up debt in your name | Access your financial accounts | Your credit card or bank account is used to make unauthorized charges or withdrawals | File phony health insurance claims | You receive medical bills for services you haven't received or are potentially denied treatment | File fraudulent tax returns | Your tax refund is delayed | Obtain employment using your information | You're liable for taxes on income you didn't receive | Steal your child's identity | Your child's credit is ruined | What to Do if Your Identity Is Stolen If you have even an inkling that you've fallen victim to identity theft, the most important thing to do is to limit the potential damage. The steps you'll take can vary based on the type of fraud committed, but here are some general guidelines for what to do if your identity is stolen: Contact your bank or credit card issuer. Whether or not you have confirmation that your account information has been compromised, contact your credit card issuers and bank immediately. You may be able to lock your accounts to prevent the identity thief from accessing them; also be sure to report unauthorized purchases, if applicable. - Review your credit reports. Double-check your credit reports with the three credit bureaus (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax) to confirm any type of unusual activity and get help dealing with the theft. You have the right to dispute fraudulent accounts directly with the credit bureaus. - File an identity theft report. Reach out to the FTC to file a report. The agency will provide steps you need to take and paperwork to file reportsâincluding how to deal with police reportsâand help you dispute fraudulent charges. - File a police report. Remember, identity theft is a crime, so it's also a good idea to contact your local law enforcement agency and report it. While local authorities may not be able to do much, they can take reports and be on the alert for suspicious behavior that could involve your name or address. - Freeze your credit or set up a fraud alert. If you find something is amiss on your credit reports, you have the right to freeze your credit report or set up a fraud alert, which notifies lenders that you've been a victim of identity theft so they can take extra measures to verify your identity when they get an application for credit in your name. - Protect your child's identity. If you suspect your child is a victim of identity theft, you can check if your child has a credit report. Then you can consider adding a fraud alert or security freeze to protect them. - Being a victim of identity theft is a harrowing experience. It can take months and many hours of filling out forms and working with agencies and businesses to recover your identity once it is stolen. As such, it's important to be alert and to respond promptly when you believe identity theft has occurred. How to Protect Yourself from Identity
