---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/credit/report/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:30.144027+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Understanding Hard Inquiries on Your Credit Report Shopping for a loan involves many steps and, potentially, multiple credit checks. Understand how hard inquiries are generated on your credit report. What is a credit report and what information is included on it? Just like school report cards summarize a student’s performance, your credit reports do the same for your financial history. Your credit reports include information about the types of credit accounts you’ve had, your payment history and other information such as your credit limits. Your credit reports are important pieces of financial information that help lenders measure your level of credit risk, or the likelihood you’ll pay your bills on time. Shopping for a loan involves many steps and, potentially, multiple credit checks. Understand how hard inquiries are generated on your credit report. Your credit reports and credit scores are vital pieces of information that are important to your overall financial wellbeing. Learn why it's important to check them regularly. Sometimes late payments happen. Learn how late payments impact your credit history, how long they stay on your credit reports, how to remove them and more. When reviewing your Equifax® credit report, you might not know what some terms mean. We define some words you may see on your credit reports. Learn what a credit report is at Equifax®! Read about the nationwide consumer reporting agencies, see how to get a credit report, find out what’s in a credit report and much more! Credit reports are a roadmap of your credit journey. It's important to know how your credit information goes from your lenders to the credit bureaus. Wondering why your credit scores dropped for seemingly no reason? Learn the most common causes of a sudden decrease. Discover how a hard inquiry vs. soft inquiry affects your credit with this overview from Equifax®. If there is information on your credit reports that you believe is inaccurate or incomplete, here are some steps you can take to resolve it — and what to expect if you file a dispute Do the three nationwide credit bureaus make lending decisions? Where do they get their information? Answers to your questions about credit bureaus. Credit monitoring services track your credit activity and provide alerts to changes to your credit report. These alerts may signal fraud or identity theft. If you've changed your legal name, you can also dispute your Equifax® Credit Report to reflect your updated information. Learn how to update your name here.
