---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-earn-extra-money-on-your-savings/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:51.547442+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:42 GMT
---
savers, as some money market accounts come with high minimum deposit requirements. You may even have to maintain a certain minimum balance to earn an account's advertised APY. Tip: Some banks may limit the number of convenient transactions you make from your money market account. For this reason, a money market account isn't a perfect substitute for a checking account. 7. Buy Government Bonds Government bonds, or treasury bonds, are essentially loans you make to the U.S. Department of the Treasury. When you buy a bond, you loan money to the government with a guarantee that you'll be repaid, plus interest. These bonds pay a fixed rate of interest every six months until maturity, which is either 20 or 30 years. Government bonds aren't completely risk-free, but they're considered an extremely safe investment. With this low risk comes lower returns. For example, as of May 2025, the 10-year average return on Treasury bonds was 3.278%âless than what the best high-yield savings accounts are paying. Tip: Because government bonds come with fixed interest rates, yours could lose value if rates rise after you purchase one. The Bottom Line No matter what you're saving for, you can reach your goals faster by earning extra money on your savings. In addition to using the right accounts and qualifying for bank bonuses when possible, using a budget and reducing unnecessary expenses can help you make the most of your savings. Curious how long it'll take to save up for that major purchase? Use Experian's savings calculator to plan for and track progress toward your goals. Earn more with a high-yield savings account Make your money work harder with a high-yield savings accountâearn higher returns with easy access to your funds. Compare accountsAbout the author Emily Batdorf is a finance writer based in northern Michigan. She specializes in topics including budgeting, banking and debt payoff, leveraging her education background to break complex topics into approachable content. Read more from Emily
