---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-robo-advisors-8764849
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:51.464816+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
accounts The round-up feature may take a long time to build a meaningful investment amount unless users contribute additional savings Limited account types Overview Acorns was founded in 2012 and is a valuable tool for those who have trouble saving money to invest. The platform rounds up a person’s spending and diverts the difference into an investment account. To date, $3 billion has been invested through this round-up feature. Acorns recommends a diversified investment portfolio to users based on their answers to several questions about their goals. Investors can also use the platform’s Round-Ups Multiplier, which will double, triple, or multiply by 10 the amount of the round-up. Note that if an investor only invests using the round-up tool, it can take a very long time to build a meaningful investment portfolio. In addition, because the rounded-up investment contributions are pulled from the user’s checking account, it’s important to monitor that account closely to avoid overdraft fees. Best for Mobile : E*TRADE Core Portfolios Investopedia's Rating 4.1 out of 5 stars Account Minimum: $500Fee: 0.30% Learn More (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It E*TRADE Core Portfolios was acquired by Morgan Stanley, and offers a robo-advisor with a user-friendly mobile app, making it easy to access the platform’s tools on the go. Pros & Cons Pros Multiple investment strategies, including core, ESG, and smart beta Mobile app enables account opening and transfers, resembling the desktop Access to the broad Morgan Stanley lineup of investment and financial management services Cons More expensive than competitive robo-advisors at lower cost No live chat Relatively limited goal setting in the portfolio creation process Overview E*TRADE was founded in 1982 and acquired by Morgan Stanley in 2020. It offers a wide range of investment services, beginning with a questionnaire to assess an investor’s goals, liquidity needs, time horizon, and risk tolerance. Based on their responses to the questionnaire, investors get a core investment portfolio that aims to fit their needs. The choices include a core portfolio, socially responsible portfolio, and smart beta portfolio. The E*TRADE app is easy to navigate, allowing users to open an account and transfer money into or out of their portfolios while providing checking, bill payment, and cash management services. Best for Education : Merrill Guided Investing Investopedia's Rating 4.5 out of 5 stars Account Minimum: $1,000, or $20,000 with an advisorFees: Annual 0.45% of assets under management, assessed monthly. With advisor — 0.85% (discounts available for Bank of America Preferred Rewards participants) Learn More (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It Merrill Guided Investing—which is integrated with Merrill Lynch and Bank of America resources—provides a vast library of educational content and a range of excellent calculators and tools that can be accessed without even having an account. Pros & Cons Pros 24/7 customer service Superior educational resources, calculators, and tools for a range of investors Integration with Bank of America and Merrill Edge financial products, making it a one-stop shop financial portal Cons Higher fees than other robo-advisor platforms No tax-loss harvesting $20,000 balance and an 0.85% annual fee required for financial advisor access Overview Merrill Lynch & Co. was founded in 1914 by Charles E. Merrill and was acquired by Bank of America in 2009, according to Reuters. While the company was once known for catering to the wealthiest Americans, Merrill Guided Investing now aims to offer a wide range of clients investment management expertise and educational tools. The robo-advisor’s investment portfolios are designed to reflect each investor’s goals, timeline, and risk tolerance. Unlike standard passively managed robo-advisor offerings, Merrill Guided Investing’s portfolios are built and managed using strategic and tactical asset allocations. Merrill’s pitch here is that having the human element can add value in terms of investment selection and portfolio construction beyond what a solely rules-based system can achieve. From an educational perspective,
