---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-does-credit-score-simulator-work/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:35.714854+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:34 GMT
---
improve over time as the length of your credit history grows. Credit scoring systems factor in the age of your oldest loan or credit account, the age of your newest account and the average age of all accounts. Length of credit history is responsible for about 15% of your FICOÂ® Score. - Credit mix: Evidence that you can handle multiple debts and different forms of credit will tend to benefit your credit scores. Credit scoring systems favor a blend of credit types, such as installment debt (student loans, auto loans and mortgages, for instance) and revolving accounts (credit cards and lines of credit). Credit mix accounts for about 10% of your FICOÂ® Score. However, this doesn't mean it's a good idea to apply for new credit accounts with the sole justification of improving your credit mix. - New credit: Taking on new debt increases the statistical likelihood you'll fall behind on your other bills. Credit scoring systems track new credit by noting hard inquiriesâcredit checks associated with credit applications that are recorded in your credit reports. Credit scores typically dip a small amount after a hard inquiry appears and can rebound within a few months if you keep up with your bill payments. New credit is responsible for about 10% of your FICOÂ® Score. - Get your FICOÂ® ScoreÎÂ for free Why Can Your Credit Scores Differ? Credit scores from different scoring companies, such as the FICOÂ® Score and VantageScoreÂ® credit score, can differ from one another, even though both assign scores on a scale from 300 to 850. Furthermore, the credit report data scoring tools analyze is continually being updated. Even when operating on identical data, however, different versions of the FICOÂ® Score can generate different scores. Since there are dozens of different versions of the FICOÂ® Score (and four different versions of the VantageScore credit score) in use, there's no way to know ahead of time which any given lender will use. For that reason, even simulators that operate on an actual credit score may not reflect exactly what a lender will see when they check your credit. Still, the factors that can affect your scores are more or less the same across scoring models, so making a concerted effort to improve your credit scores can yield results. By continuing to pay bills on time, keep credit card balances low and avoid applications for new credit, your scores have the potential to grow regardless of how they are calculated. What Credit Score Simulators Can and Can't Do Credit score simulators can: Give you a general sense of whether a single action you take will have a positive or negative impact on your credit scores. - Estimate with reasonable accuracy the amount by which a given action will change your credit score. - Credit score simulators cannot: Account for the credit score impact of multiple events that occur simultaneously or in close succession. The credit score impact of, say, taking out a new mortgage and putting a bedroom set on a credit card could affect credit scores more significantly than might be suggested by running each event through a simulator separately. - Fully anticipate and account for all the activity occurring across multiple credit accounts in a given month. This is why a simulated score should be taken as general guidance, not a precise forecast. - When Does It Make Sense to Use a Credit Score Simulator? Situations in which a credit score simulator can help with sound decision making include the following: When you're trying to choose which of several credit card balances to pay down first to achieve the fastest possible increase in your credit scores. - Before you submit a formal loan application, a simulator can give you an idea how much your credit scores might be affected by the new debt. - If you plan
