---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-debt-relief-companies-8763179
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:00.590678+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
and CDRI. Past customers are quite pleased with the service, overall—Pacific earned a score of 4.81 out of 5 in Investopedia’s combined customer satisfaction rating. According to the company, most clients save 30% to 50% on their enrolled debt. Pacific Debt Relief has been in business since 2002 and is based in San Diego, California. Learn more in our full Pacific Debt Relief review. Important Pacific Debt Relief is available in Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, the District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Wisconsin, and Wyoming. Fees and Costs As usual, you begin with a free consultation with Pacific Debt Relief. If you decide to work with this company you’ll need to open a savings account, which will likely have a monthly fee. If Pacific is able to settle any of your debts and you agree to the terms, you’ll pay a fee of 15% to 25% of the enrolled debt. Best Overall for Credit Counseling : Apprisen Investopedia's Rating 4.8 out of 5 stars Apprisen Services: Debt management plans, credit counselingDMP enrollment fee: $0 to $45DMP monthly fee: $0 to $45Minimum debt required: $0 Learn More (opens in a new tab) Pros & Cons Pros Low fees, based on income Counseling services for taxes, housing, student loans, and more Several customer support channels make it easy to get help Cons Weekend customer support is not available Some counseling courses may not have much or any human interaction Certain counseling services have higher fees Why We Chose It Apprisen earned the top spot among credit counseling agencies, with great scores across the board. It has low fees, offers a wide variety of services, and has excellent (although limited) customer ratings. Apprisen offers credit counseling and debt management plans (DMPs), not debt settlement. Under a DMP, Apprisen can negotiate with your creditors to figure out an affordable payment plan and may be able to get your interest rates reduced. Apprisen’s maximum DMP fees are a bit less than average among counseling agencies we researched. Debt management plans require you to pay off the entire debt you owe, but that also means you won’t have a settlement on your credit reports bringing your credit score down. You’ll make one monthly payment to Apprisen to cover all the creditors involved in your debt management plan until your debts are paid off. Apprisen also offers a variety of specific counseling services to help with all kinds of debt problems, from housing to bankruptcy. Apprisen was founded in 1955 and is headquartered in Gahanna, Ohio. Fees and Costs Apprisen starts with a free financial review session. You’ll speak with a counselor about your debt, and together you’ll figure out which service would be most effective (and how much it’ll cost). Apprisen’s fees are reduced or waived entirely for those who meet income qualifications. Debt management plans: $0 to $45 to enroll; $0 to $45 per month.Credit health plan: $65 for individuals or $85 for couples; includes a deep dive into your credit and development of a plan to improve it over time.Financial coaching: A one-time fee of $300 for financial goal setting, action plan, on-demand access to a counselor, and other financial tools.Financial health plan: $95 for a personalized financial plan covering your budget, debts, credit, savings, and goals.Bankruptcy counseling: $25 for an online pre-bankruptcy counseling course; $50 for an in-person post-bankruptcy workshop.Pre-purchase mortgage counseling: Up to $90 for advice on getting ready to take out a mortgage, as required by some lenders. In addition to the paid counseling options above, Apprisen offers free counseling for the following situations and needs: First-time renterFirst-time homebuyerMortgage delinquency/foreclosure preventionStudent loan
