---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/are-rewards-cards-worth-it/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:48.947089+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:52 GMT
---
Are Credit Card Rewards Worth It? Quick Answer Rewards credit cards can be tempting, and they might be worth it if you can earn rewards and get cardholder benefits that save you money. However, they may lead to overspending, and the cards could have high interest rates and annual fees. A rewards credit card might be worth it if you can use the card to earn rewards on purchases you were going to make anyway and pay off your balance in full to avoid accruing interest. Otherwise, you might save money if you use a debit card or prepaid card instead or if you opt for a credit card with a lower interest rate. What Is a Rewards Credit Card? A rewards credit card is a credit card that offers you rewards when you use the card for purchases. Rewards cards work the same as non-rewards credit cards. Your transactions are added together at the end of each billing cycle, and you can pay off the statement balance in full to avoid accruing interest. Or, you can pay less than the full amount and revolve part of your balance. But the revolved portion and your new purchases start to accrue interest. Earn rewards for your spending Types of Credit Card Rewards Rewards credit cards can be categorized in different ways. There are three basic types of rewards that you can earn from using your card: cash back, points and miles. Additionally, there are four common ways that card issuers structure a card's rewards rates. Cash Back A cash back credit card lets you accrue cash back rewards from your purchases. You might be able to redeem your cash back rewards for a statement credit to offset credit card purchases, a check or a direct deposit into a bank account. Points Many card issuers use points as the currency for their rewards program. Some card issuers even have cash back credit cards that give you points that are worth 1 cent each. Additionally, you might earn points with a hotel card, store card or certain airline cards. Depending on the card and program, you might be able to redeem your points for different types of rewards, such as travel, cash back, gift cards or merchandise. Miles Rewards miles are the same as points, but airline credit cards and a few card issuers' rewards programs use "miles" as their rewards program's currency. With airline rewards cards, your miles get added to your airline loyalty program and you can redeem them based on that program's rules. Learn more: Cash Back vs Points: Which Rewards Credit Card Is Better? 4 Common Rewards Structures Many rewards cards structure their rewards program in one of four ways: Flat-rate rewards: You earn the same amount of rewards on all your purchases. For example, 2 points, miles or cents per dollar you spend. - Tiered rewards: You earn bonus rewards when you make purchases from certain merchants or within specific categories, such as dining or travel. - Rotating bonus rewards: Earn a high bonus rewards rate, such as 5 points per dollar, on specific categories that the card issuer changes throughout the year. There may be a limit on the bonus rewards you can earn each quarter. - Dynamic bonus rewards: Earn bonus rewards on purchases in specific categories that you can choose and change throughout the year. Alternatively, the categories might automatically adjust based on your spending. - You'll still earn rewards on eligible purchases in non-bonus categories if your card has a tiered, rotating or dynamic rewards structure. However, you often only earn 1 point per dollar you spend on non-bonus-category purchases. Learn more: Transactions That Don't Earn Credit Card Rewards Advantages of Credit Card Rewards Although the specifics will depend on the type of rewards card you use, most rewards credit cards offer several benefits.
