---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/best-cd-rates-4770214
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:54.687783+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
such as penalties for early withdrawal and whether your CD will be automatically reinvested if you don’t provide other instructions at the time of maturity. Credit unions may also require you to open a high-yield savings account or money market account before you open a CD. Once your CD is established and funded, the bank or credit union will set the terms and conditions, just as it does with other deposit accounts. You'll have either monthly or quarterly statement periods, paper or electronic statements, and usually monthly or quarterly interest payments deposited to your CD balance, where the interest will compound. The money you put into a CD is insured like other deposit accounts—up to $250,000 per customer, per institution. How Much Does a $10,000 CD Earn in One Year? If you invest $10,000 in a CD for one year, you could earn at least a few hundred dollars, depending on the interest rate. For example, with an APY of 4.55%, you'd get $455 in interest after one year. CD rates can change, so locking in a high interest rate today could guarantee you the maximum earnings, especially if CD rates drop by next year. There are a few scenarios you may encounter or need to decide between when it comes to investing $10,000 in a CD. It'll depend on the rate and CD term you choose. Here are a few scenarios: Deposit Amount APY Term Earnings $10,000 5.50% 8 months $363 $10,000 4.55% 1 year $455 $10,000 4.40% 3 years $1,378 Who Should Get a CD? If you're looking to save money for a certain amount of time and want to make sure you don't touch it until you need it, consider a top-paying CD. If you're risk-averse and don't want to invest money in the stock market because there's no guarantee you'll see a return, that's another reason to open a CD. CDs offer a fixed rate of return that guarantees your earnings until the CD's term ends. And right now, CD rates are high—over 4% in many cases—so you can earn a solid return on your deposit. CDs Can Help You Beat Inflation In September 2025, inflation was 3.0%, while the top APY offered across all CDs was 4.60%. CD rates reached historic highs in 2023 as a result of the Fed's rate-hike policy to cool inflation, which had reached 9.1% in June 2022. CDs can help you combat inflation by paying you interest on your money, even though you may be paying more for goods and services. This will not always be the case, though. Interest rates are often increased to help combat high inflation. With inflation trending toward the standard 2% mark the Fed aims for each year, the federal funds rate was reduced in September for the first time in four years, then again in both November and December. CD rates have subsequently begun to decline. Right now, the best CD rates are still over 4.25%, which is much higher than what CD rates were just a few years ago. Buying a CD now is a good idea since you'll be able to earn a higher interest rate than you might be able to earn in a year from now. Right now, you're guaranteed a high interest rate, even if the Fed decides to lower rates during the term of your CD. Waiting to buy a CD could mean earning a lower interest rate on a CD and losing out on higher guaranteed earnings. So if you are debating whether to buy a CD or not, don't wait. Types of CDs Regular CDs: A regular CD is a CD with a fixed interest rate for a set period. Brick-and-mortar traditional banks, as well as online institutions and credit unions, offer these kinds of CDs. They may also be called traditional CDs. Variable-rate CDs: A
