---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/administrative_law
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:11:13.616820+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 11:00:52 GMT
---
functions, the agencies often have their own judicial body, known as the Administrative Law Judge, who are part of their respective agency, but must be independent from the agency officials involved in certain actions. The administrative law judges are to adjudicate claims or disputes involving the agency, as an impartial trier of fact and law, and are prohibited by APA from engaging in any ex parte contact with the agency, unless upon notice and opportunities to all parties involved in the proceeding. Finally, the agencies have much fewer procedural limitations in its guidance actions, where the agencies can issue interpretive rulings or guidance letters explaining its stance on certain rules, etc., but without the force of law. Judicial Review of Agency Actions Loper Bright Enterprises v. Raimondo (2024) - Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. NRDC, 467 U.S. 837 (1984) - Auer v. Robbins, 519 U.S. 452 (1997) - Skidmore v. Swift, 323 U.S. 134 (1944) - One important aspect of the administrative law is the judicial deference given by the courts to the agencies. The level of deference afforded to administrative agencies has varied over time (see below). However; in 2024, the Supreme Court overturned Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. NRDC, 467 U.S. 837 (1984); in Loper Bright Enterprises v. Raimondo. Under Chevron deference, courts applied an extremely deferential standard of review, in which they deferred to agency interpretations of such statutes unless they were determined to be unreasonable. Under the Auer deference, courts deferred to the agency interpretations of its own ambiguous regulations. Akin to the Chevron deference, the Court decided that the agency’s interpretation of its own regulations were binding unless it was plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation. If the Chevron or Auer deference did not apply, then the Skidmore deference applied, in which the courts did not give a binding deference to the agency’s interpretation but gave varying amounts of deference according to the agency’s expertise in the particular matter. In Loper Bright, the Supreme Court decided that Chevron deference exceeded the guidelines laid out in the Administrative Procedure Act. Going forward, courts should not grant blind deference to the statutory interpretations of administrative agencies, but instead must “independently interpret the statute and effectuate the will of Congress subject to constitutional limits.” See Loper Bright. A court engages in this task by “recognizing constitutional delegations, fixing the boundaries of the delegated authority, and ensuring the agency has engaged in ‘reasoned decision-making’ within those boundaries.” Federal Material Federal Statutes 5 U.S.C. - Government Organization and Employees - 5 U.S.C. Ch. 5 - Federal Administrative Procedure Act - Federal Agency Regulations See generally the Code of Federal Regulations - Federal Judicial Decisions Recent Administrative Law DecisionsLoper Bright Enterprises v. Raimondo (2024) - Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. NRDC, 467 U.S. 837 (1984) - Auer v. Robbins, 519 U.S. 452 (1997) - Shell Oil Co. v. E.P.A., 950 F.2d 741 (D.C. Cir. 1991) - Skidmore v. Swift, 323 U.S. 134 (1944) - - [Last reviewed in February of 2025 by the Wex Definitions Team] Wex
