---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-remove-your-information-from-people-search-sites/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:55.345203+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:50 GMT
---
be to search the company's name along with terms like "remove," "delete" and "opt-out." The process can vary from one site to another, and the links to their opt-out or requests pages regularly change. Additionally, here are a few things to keep in mind before starting: Consider creating a new email account. People search sites might ask you to set up an account or verify an email address. Creating and using a new email account might help you stay organized and protect you from unwanted spam. - Some companies control multiple sites. For example, PeopleConnect runs Intelius, Instant Checkmate, Truthfinder and US Search. You can use the PeopleConnect Suppression Center to attempt to suppress your data from all those sites at once. - You may need to submit several requests. Some people search sites ask you to link to the URL with the profile that you want to remove. Name changes and typos could lead to you having several pages, and you may need to submit a request for each page. - Removing your information isn't always possible. Submitting an opt-out, deletion or suppression request won't necessarily remove all your information from the internet or the company's databases. Some data comes from public records, which your request won't affect. The company also might maintain certain records even if you ask it to delete your information. - Compliance isn't guaranteed. Some of the companies have allegedly ignored consumers who dispute information about them as inaccurate. And, in some cases, allowed others to see results after a person asked for their info to be removed. - 4. Wait and Check if Your Information Was Removed It can take a few days, and sometimes longer, for the company to complete your request. After it does, your information shouldn't appear in the company's public results. You can try to verify this by waiting a week and searching for your name on the website. You might want to use an incognito browser tab to get a better sense of what others will see. 5. Recheck the Sites in the Future You may also want to recheck the sites in the future. Even if they delete or suppress your profile today, you could wind up back on the sites if there are new public records or other information. You may want to repeat the process every few months because new people search websites are launched all the time. Some sites also might add info back into their results if they find new public records associated with or purchase new information about you from a data broker. How to Protect Your Identity Going Forward Removing yourself from people search websites can be an ongoing process. But there are a few things you can do to help protect your privacy and identity: Limit what you share online. Try not to share a lot of personal information on social media. You can also review your social media accounts' privacy settings to limit what other people can find. - Reduce your digital footprint. You can go look through old online accounts and delete accounts that you no longer want or use. - Use Experian's personal privacy scan. Get a free one-time personal privacy scan to see if your information is on covered people finder sites. Experian members with a paid premium membership receive monthly scans and get help removing their information from the covered sites. - Sign up for identity theft protection. Look into identity protection services that monitor multiple databases. Some, including Experian's monitoring for paid members, can alert you if your information is found on the dark web or in court records, and when there are changes in your credit reports and financial accounts. You also could receive identity theft insurance and recovery assistance. - You may have additional options if you're trying to conceal your information because
