---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/research/personal-loan-study/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:42.092452+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:01 GMT
---
Average Personal Loan Balance Grows 6.3% in 2023 Quick Answer The average personal loan balance increased by 6.3% in 2023 to $19,402 - U.S. consumers had a total combined personal loan balance of $567.5 billion in 2023. - Collectively, consumers held 58.61 million personal loans; 28.86 million unsecured and 29.75 million secured. - Higher interest rates are changing the way consumers use and perceive personal loans. Today, more consumers appear to be turning to personal loans to consolidate debt and finance major purchases to avoid the bitter pill of higher rates with other financing options. Personal loans were always an option for consumers frustrated with stubborn credit card balances. That was true when interest rates were lower, as they were for much of the 2010s. Beginning in 2022 and continuing last year, however, growing credit card balances and rapid rate hikes meant using personal loans to lower one's monthly payments took on a new urgency. As part of our ongoing review of consumer debt and credit in the U.S., Experian examined representative and anonymized credit data through the third quarter (Q3) of 2023 to identify trends in both secured and unsecured personal loans. Compare now: Best Personal Loan Rates Total U.S. Personal Loan Debt Increases 9.2% Like credit card balances, personal loan balances grew sharply in 2023, but not nearly as much as they did in 2022. Unsecured loansâthe type offered to borrowers largely based on the applicant's credit history and incomeâgrew by 9.4% in 2023. Loans secured by assets such as boats, campers, RVs and other types of collateral grew by a similar amount. 2021 | 2022 | 2023 | 2022-2023 Change | ---|---|---|---| Total unsecured personal loans | $133.2B | $177.4B | $194.0B | +$16.6B (+9.4%) | ---|---|---|---|---| Total secured personal loans | $303.0B | $342.1B | $373.5B | +$28.4B (+9.2%) | ---|---|---|---|---| Total combined balance | $436.2B | $519.5B | $567.5B | +$48B (+9.2%) | ---|---|---|---|---| Source: Experian data from Q3 of each year The number of existing unsecured personal loans increased by nearly 2 million accounts to 28.9 million in 2023. However, the almost 7% increase in 2023 was still not nearly as large as the 20.4% increase seen in 2022, when more than 3.5 million new personal loan accounts were added. 2021 | 2022 | 2023 | 2022-2023 Change | ---|---|---|---| Total unsecured personal loans | 22.37M | 26.95M | 28.86M | +1.91M (+7.1%) | ---|---|---|---|---| Total secured personal loans | 25.85M | 27.91M | 29.75M | +1.84M (+6.6%) | ---|---|---|---|---| Source: Experian data from Q3 of each year The amounts currently owed on personal loan balances continue to grow as well. The 6.3% overall increase in average personal loan balance slowed slightly versus 2022's growth, despite higher interest rates for most types of loans due to the Federal Reserve methodically raising the key federal funds rate. 2020 | 2021 | 2022 | 2023 | 2022-2023 Change | ---|---|---|---|---| $16,458 | $17,064 | $18,255 | $19,402 | +$1,147 (+6.3%) | Source: Experian data from Q3 of each year Demand for Personal Loans Has Steadied Growth in the number of new personal loans softened somewhat in 2023 from the large jump the year prior, when consumers returned to personal loans largely to tame rising credit card rates. Still, there were 25.5 million loans made in the 12 months ending in September 2023âhigher than the 21.2 million personal loans originated in 2019. Personal Loan Originations, Rolling 12-Month Average Average Personal Loan Balances Increase in Nearly All States The rash of new personal borrowing from last year also calmed some in 2023, although average balance increases are still outpacing inflation by a significant margin. Despite the 9% increase in 2023, that's still much less than the 17% increase in 2022, when the Federal Reserve first started ratcheting up rates. Average Personal Loan Balance and Average Credit Score by
