---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/consumer-tools/credit-reports-and-scores/consumer-reporting-companies/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:59.560541+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
you intend to purchase a home or car with credit, or otherwise intend to apply for credit in the future. Check your reports before making financial decisions If you are applying for a job, an insurance policy, or a lease, you should fact-check your background screening reports to ensure there are no errors. Check your reports if you think you may be a victim of identity theft Data breaches are an unfortunate reality. It’s important to be aware of your options to take greater control of your consumer reporting data. Fact-check your reports and consider blocking third-party access to your consumer reporting data through a security “freeze.” Resources to take action How to request a report Under the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) , all consumer reporting companies are required to provide you a copy of the information in your report if you request it. You are also entitled to a free credit report every 12 months from each of the three nationwide consumer reporting companies—Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian. You can request a copy through AnnualCreditReport.com . As a result of a 2019 settlement, all U.S. consumers may also request up to six free copies of their Equifax credit report during any twelve-month period through December 2026. These free copies will be provided to you in addition to any free reports to which you are entitled under federal law. You have the right to dispute the information in your reports If you find information in your consumer reports that you believe is inaccurate or incomplete, you have the legal right to dispute the report’s content with the consumer reporting company and the company that shared the information with the consumer reporting company, such as your lender. Under the FCRA, companies must conduct – free of charge – a reasonable investigation of your dispute. If you have complaints about your consumer reports The Bureau handles consumer reporting complaints about report accuracy and completeness errors, credit repair services, and other consumer reporting topics. If you are dissatisfied with a company’s investigation of an earlier dispute, if you believe your consumer report was used improperly, or if you have problems getting access to your own consumer reports you may consider submitting a complaint. Page last modified @
