---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/personal_injury
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:09:18.275944+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 11:09:14 GMT
---
personal injury Personal injuries include every variety of injury to a person's body, emotions, or reputation, as contradistinguished from injury to property rights. Grounds There are three grounds on which personal injury claims can be brought: Negligence is the most common basis for personal injury claims. The basis for liability under negligence stems from an individual’s failures to behave with the level of care that someone of ordinary prudence would have exercised under the same circumstances. For example, a hunter who carelessly shoots his gun towards other people. - Strict Liability holds a defendant liable for committing an action, regardless of what his/her intent or mental state was when committing the action. For example, if an injury occurs as a result of a defect in a product, the manufacturer is responsible for that injury even though they did not act negligently or intend for their product to cause harm. - Intentional Wrongs result from an intentional act of the defendant. Common intentional torts are battery, assault, false imprisonment, trespass to land, trespass to chattels, and intentional infliction of emotional distress. - Causes of Action Personal injury claims can arise from harm done to the body. For example: Automobile accidents - Workplace accidents - Assault - Product defect accidents - Medical malpractice - Nursing home abuse - Toxic torts - Personal injury claims can also arise from non-bodily harm. For example: Intentional infliction of emotional distress - Defamation - False detention, arrest, or imprisonment - Malicious prosecution - Invasion of privacy - Damages If the plaintiff is successful on their claim, they will be awarded money damages for their injuries. Damages are meant to compensate the injured party for their loss. Damages for personal injury may include, but are not limited to, the following: Medical expenses - Lost wages - Pain and suffering - Mental and emotional distress - Household assistance - Travel expenses - [Last reviewed in July of 2020 by the Wex Definitions Team] Wex
