---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/diversity/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:51.550041+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Inclusion and Belonging at Experian - Creating a better tomorrow Power of YOU Annual Experian I&B Report Annual Experian I&B Report At Experian, inclusion and belonging isn't a catchphrase, it’s a core value. We believe bringing together unique experiences, diverse backgrounds and individual differences creates a dynamic, innovative and inspiring workplace — one reflective of the clients and communities we serve around the globe. Every year, we strengthen our commitment to inclusion and belonging. We amplified our support for the physical, mental and financial well-being of our employees while also enhancing our efforts to hire, develop and promote talented employees from underrepresented populations Some of our Inclusion and Belonging work in action: Learn how to boost your credit, hear from experts, and level up your finances through free courses, live events, and interactive experiences. Whether you're starting out or investing for the future, we’re here to help you bridge the wealth gap and secure your financial future. Get in the game Experian earned a score of 100 out of 100 in the Disability Equality Index (DEI) 2024 in both the UK and US. The Disbaility Equality Index is the world’s most comprehensive benchmarking tool that measures disability workplace inclusion. Our ERGs are culture carriers that are vital to who we are. They are a cornerstone of workplace culture at Experian, giving employees a space to celebrate and embrace their identities, affiliations, and interests with their colleagues. Inclusion and Belonging are essential to our purpose of creating a better tomorrow, together, by making positive change in the world and supporting efforts to close the financial wealth gap of underserved communities. We actively support the potential of all expressions of diversity, including but not limited to gender identity and/or expression, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity, culture, religious beliefs, disability, veteran status, parental status, thought or style. Everything we do every day helps further the cause of equity for all. Equity means facilitating access to the people we serve, our products that help people achieve their dreams, and the careers that can fulfill their goals We’re working toward greater financial and social inclusion in the communities we serve. We’ve partnered with more than 25 nonprofit and diversity organizations on initiatives to drive systemic change, and support credit education, financial literacy, entrepreneurship and homeownership. ©2026 Experian Information Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved. Experian and the Experian trademarks used herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of Experian. Other product or company names mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners.
