---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-secured-loan/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:25.098955+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:17 GMT
---
What Is a Secured Loan? Quick Answer A secured loan is a type of loan backed by an asset such as a car or a house. Mortgages and car loans are examples of secured loans. A secured loan is a type of loan that's backed by collateral, or assets you own. When you take out a secured loan, you're putting your collateral on the line. If you can't repay the loan, the lender can take your collateral to recoup their loss. Because loans secured by collateral reduce the lender's risk, they allow borrowers to finance large purchases, such as a new home or vehicle. In addition, secured personal loans can be a flexible borrowing option with some advantages, such as lower interest rates. But secured loans also have downsides, and it's important to understand how they work and the risks they expose you to before you borrow. Here's what to know before you take out a secured loan. How Does a Secured Loan Work? A secured loan is a type of debt backed by collateral, such as physical assets like your house or car, or financial assets such as stocks and bonds. Secured loans are commonly used for large purchases. For example, if you use a mortgage to buy a home or an auto loan to buy a car, the loan is secured by the asset you purchased with it. There are also secured personal loans, which work like unsecured personal loans but require you to back the loan with collateral. These types of loans can offer lower rates and easier approval, especially for borrowers with low credit. If you have trouble paying the loan, the lender can put a lien on the secured loan's collateral. In the event that a borrower defaults on a secured loan, the lender can seize the collateral used to secure the loan. They can then sell it to cover any losses incurred on the loan. In the case of mortgages, this is called foreclosure. Because the financial and personal consequences of defaulting on a secured loan are serious, it's imperative to understand what's at stake before you apply for a secured loan. Types of Secured Loans Secured loans can be used for a number of purposes, and there are many different loan products that use collateral. Here are a few of the most common types of secured loans: Mortgages, including home equity loans and HELOCs - Auto loans and loans for boats, motorcycles and other types of vehicles - Secured personal loans - Secured credit cards - Compare personal loan rates Find APRs from 4.99% to 35.99% and flexible terms of 12 to 120 months. Loan amounts range from $1,000 up to $250,000, with funding available the same day or up to 7 days. Offers from our partners View all of our Best Personal Loans for 2026 to see what youâre likely to qualify for, and the rates and terms you might get. What Can Be Used as Collateral for a Loan? Lenders often set specific requirements for what can be used as collateral on a secured loan. For example, in the case of a mortgage, your home will always serve as the collateral. But other types of assets can be used as collateral, too, including: Real estate, such as your home - Cash and financial accounts, including checking accounts, savings accounts, certificates of deposit accounts, and money market accounts - Cars, trucks and other vehicles - Stocks, mutual funds and bond investments - Insurance policies, including life insurance - Precious metals, high-end collectibles and other valuables - Secured vs. Unsecured Loans The main difference between secured loans and unsecured loans is that an unsecured loan doesn't require you to put up any collateral to qualify. That major difference has other implications for how these types of loans work, who can qualify, the interest
