---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/can-i-get-a-credit-card-after-bankruptcy/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:30.721084+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:59 GMT
---
institutions, a credit-builder loan can help you save a little money as you work to improve your credit. The lender loans you a small sum (usually less than $1,000), but instead of handing you the cash, it places it in a special savings account that's off limits to you. If you make all required monthly payments on the loanâtypically over a term of 24 months or lessâthe money, plus any accumulated interest, is yours to keep. (If you fail to make your payments, the lender can keep the money). On-time loan payments can help your creditâjust make sure any lender you're considering reports payments to all three credit bureaus. - Monitor your credit reports and scores. Checking your credit regularly to track improvement over time can reinforce good credit habits. It can also alert you to suspicious activity on your credit accountsâa possible warning sign of fraud and identity theft. You can check your credit reports from all three credit bureaus for free at AnnualCreditReport.com. You can also sign up for free credit monitoring with Experian, which allows you to check your Experian credit report and FICOÂ® ScoreÎ from Experian and alerts you when new activity appears on your report. - The Bottom Line Bankruptcy can have negative consequences for many years, but millions have successfully moved past it, and you can too. Reestablishing credit and a positive payment history as soon as possible after your bankruptcy can help you begin rebuilding your credit and get back on your feet. Regularly checking your FICOÂ® Score from Experian is a great way to track your progress back to credit health. Instantly raise your FICOÂ® Score for free Use Experian BoostÂ® to get credit for the bills you already pay like utilities, mobile phone, video streaming services and now rent. No credit card required About the author Jim Akin is freelance writer based in Connecticut. With experience as both a journalist and a marketing professional, his most recent focus has been in the area of consumer finance and credit scoring. Read more from Jim
