---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/20-types-of-identity-theft-and-fraud/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:50.839144+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:50 GMT
---
fraud. 18. Employment Fraud In employment fraud, a scammer lures job seekers into giving up personal information or money using fake job opportunities. How this type of fraud happens: Employment fraud preys on job seekers by recruiting victims to "lucrative" nonexistent positions. Then, they tell you that you must pay to finalize the hiring process. They may ask you to purchase safety equipment, training materials, uniforms or other bogus goods or services. Once they have your money, the recruiters vanish without a trace. How to avoid it: If approached with a job prospect via email, text or social media, do not respond until you do some investigating. Contact the hiring company or recruiter directly (using a phone number or email address you obtain via web search) to confirm whether the outreach is legitimate. Look for a relevant LinkedIn profile for the person who's contacted you. Even if all that checks out, if the recruiter seeks payment of any kind, break contact. Report the scam to appropriate authorities, including the platform where you received the messages. 19. Unemployment Fraud Unemployment fraud is a type of identity theft in which a criminal impersonates someone in order to collect unemployment benefits. How this type of fraud happens: Using a victim's personal information, a criminal files a claim for unemployment insurance in the victim's name. Benefit payments may be deposited directly onto a bogus debit card or bank account. Victims may be unaware until they receive a 1099-G tax form reporting taxable unemployment income. Or, they may find out they've been targeted when they file for legitimate unemployment and find their benefits are used up. How to avoid it: If you don't have one, set up an account with ID.me â a third-party company that provides identity-verification services to many state and federal agencies. An ID.me account is a prerequisite to collecting unemployment in many states, and even if you never need to collect, setting up your ID.me account can prevent a scammer from doing so in your name. If you receive an unexpected 1099-G form or any other surprise communications regarding unemployment benefits you haven't applied for, follow U.S. Department of Labor guidelines for reporting unemployment scams. Learn more: Unemployment Scams to Watch Out For 20. Crypto Fraud Crypto fraud is a type of scam that uses cryptocurrency to trick people out of money. How this type of fraud happens: Because cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ether aren't well-regulated, there can be potential confusion over their value and liquidity (ability to cash out). Cryptos are considered high-risk investment vehicles, and their value can fluctuate wildly. That makes them fertile ground for scammers offering bogus advice or get-rich-quick schemes. Crypto fraud can also happen when a scammer asks you to make payment through cryptocurrency. Because crypto payments are hard to trace, losses to crypto fraud can be hard to recover. How to avoid it: If you're curious about cryptocurrency as an investment tool, investigate by contacting a trusted financial advisorânot answering an email or text solicitation. And while some merchants accept cryptocurrency as payment, no legitimate businesses require that you pay that way, so turn away if you feel pressured to convert your cash to crypto. Beware crypto investment schemes that guarantee big gains, and avoid any person you meet through an online dating site who begins touting crypto schemes or pressuring you to get into cryptocurrency. Learn more: How to Avoid Cryptocurrency Scams Frequently Asked Questions The Bottom Line Identity thieves continually adapt to exploit changes in technology and the ways we do business and live our lives online. Protecting your personal information to avoid identity theft and fraud requires constant vigilance. Stay aware of evolving criminal methods, and consider enrolling in Experian's identity theft monitoring, which scans the web and alerts you if it finds personal information that's compromised. Monitor your credit
