---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-establish-credit-as-a-young-person/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:25.477507+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:43 GMT
---
cause you to appear financially risky. - Learn more: How Much Credit Card Debt Is Too Much? How Long Does It Take to Establish Credit? Your credit file is established as soon as your first credit account is reported to the credit bureaus (or if you use Experian Boost or Experian Go to get an Experian credit report). For most people, this is at age 18 or later, unless they had a credit report earlier due to being an authorized user. However, it can take up to six months of payment history to establish a credit score. Additionally, if you have fewer than five credit accounts, also known as having a thin file, lenders and credit scoring models may not have enough information to assess your creditworthiness just yet. How to Monitor Your Credit As you start establishing credit, consider signing up for credit monitoring to watch your progress. This also gives you a chance to catch errors or fraud that could hurt your credit; you have the right to file a dispute if you find information you think was reported in error. There are no-cost options such as Experian's free credit monitoring, which provides access to your Experian credit report and score along with helpful tools and tips. You can also get free weekly online credit reports from all three credit bureaus at AnnualCreditReport.com. Frequently Asked Questions The Bottom Line As you turn 18, there's surely a lot more on your mind than your credit score, but putting in the effort to start establishing credit now will give you a leg up in early adulthood and pay off for years to come. Because the age of your accounts is a credit scoring factor, the longer you've had open and active accounts, the better (assuming you make on-time payments). While this takes some time, you're making a long-term investment in your financial future and establishing credit while you're youngâwhich is better than waiting until you need to apply for a rental apartment, job or loan. Instantly raise your FICOÂ® Score for free Use Experian BoostÂ® to get credit for the bills you already pay like utilities, mobile phone, video streaming services and now rent. No credit card required About the author Emily Starbuck Gerson is a freelance writer who specializes in personal finance, small business, LGBTQ and travel topics. Sheâs been a journalist for over a decade and has worked as a staff writer at CreditCards.com and NerdWallet. Emilyâs work has appeared in CNBC, MarketWatch, Business Insider, USA Today, The Christian Science Monitor and the Chicago Tribute, among other websites and publications. Read more from Emily Starbuck
