---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/blog/who-are-credit-invisible/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:53:03.388701+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
looking to build up a thin or nonexistent credit record. - Reporting rent and other, less traditional payment data to the credit reporting companies There are a number of payments you make that credit reporting companies don’t currently receive information about, but could be captured to record on-time payment history. This data could include monthly rent or cell phone payments. You can also leverage this opportunity by opting into self-reported payments through a company that offers this service. Fees and conditions may apply for such services, so be sure to do your homework before enrolling. Know how to access credit reports You have the right to request your credit report from each of the three nationwide credit reporting companies once every twelve months free of charge at annualcreditreport.com . Having this information on-hand is the most important first step to building or rebuilding credit. Take steps to correct errors You should actively take steps to correct any accuracy issues with your credit reports. In fact, accuracy issues are the top cited issues in credit reporting complaints we handle. We have forms you can use to dispute errors on your credit report. You have the legal right to dispute errors on report with the credit reporting company and the company that furnished the information to the reporting company such as your lender. Companies are obligated to conduct – free of charge – a reasonable investigation of your dispute. The company that has provided the incorrect information must correct the error, and notify all of the credit reporting companies to whom it provided the inaccurate information. We have other tools to help you get the information you need. If you have questions about credit reporting and building your credit, visit Ask CFPB. If you are facing an issue with credit reporting, or other financial products or services, you can submit a complaint at consumerfinance.gov/complaint or by phone at 855-411-2372.
