---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/mortgage-rates-5094943
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:58.666237+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Table of Contents Expand Table of Contents Today's Mortgage Rates Best Mortgage Lenders How to Use Our Mortgage Rate Tables Fixed Rate Mortgage Terms Compare Mortgage Payments for 30-Year, 20-Year, 15-Year, and 10-Year Mortgages Trends in Mortgage Rates: Will They Continue Falling? How Does a Mortgage Work? Types of Mortgages Options for First Time Homebuyers The Difference Between Interest Rate and APR How Are Mortgage Rates Set? How to Get the Best Mortgage Rates Qualifying for a Better Mortgage Rate How to Apply for a Mortgage How to Refinance Your Mortgage FAQs Will We Ever See a 3% Mortgage Rate Again? Why Haven't Mortgage Rates Fallen Yet? Why You Should Trust Us Methodology Your Guide to Mortgage Rates We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation. Compare Current Mortgage Rates Today - February 6, 2026 By Greg Daugherty Full Bio Greg Daugherty has worked 25+ years as an editor and writer for major publications and websites. He is also the author of two books. Learn about our editorial policies Updated February 06, 2026 Part of the Series When to Buy a Home Based on Mortgage Rates When to Buy a Home Based on Mortgage Rates How Mortgages Work Overview Shopping for Mortgage Rates 5 Things You Need to Get Pre-Approved for a Mortgage Mistakes to Avoid Rates for Different Loan Types Points and Your Rate How Much Do I Need to Put Down on a Mortgage? Understanding Different Rates Fixed vs. Adjustable Rate When Adjustable Rate Rises Commercial Real Estate Loans Saving on Fees Closing Costs Avoiding "Junk" Fees Negotiating Closing Costs Lender vs. Broker Types of Lenders Applying to Lenders: How Many? Broker Advantages and Disadvantages How Loan Offers Make Money The average 30-year fixed mortgage rate was 6.29% on Thursday, February 5. The 20-year fixed mortgage rate was 6.20%, the 15-year fixed mortgage rate was 5.43%, and the 10-year fixed mortgage rate was 5.63%. Average rates for other loan types include 6.60% for an FHA 30-year fixed mortgage and 6.25% for a jumbo 30-year fixed mortgage. These fixed-rate loan averages are not the teaser rates you may see advertised online. To find the average mortgage rates today, we use data from approximately 40 lenders, assuming a down payment of at least 20% and an applicant credit score in the 680–739 range. We believe this is more representative of what customers could expect to be quoted, depending on their qualifications. Today's Mortgage Rates Loan Type Purchase Refinance 30-Year Fixed 6.29% 6.43% FHA 30-Year Fixed 6.60% 6.60% VA 30-Year Fixed 5.81% 5.78% 20-Year Fixed 6.20% 6.38% 15-Year Fixed 5.43% 5.43% FHA 15-Year Fixed 5.38% 5.57% 10-Year Fixed 5.63% 5.89% 7/6 ARM 6.44% 6.68% 5/6 ARM 6.50% 6.69% Jumbo 30-Year Fixed 6.25% 6.25% Jumbo 15-Year Fixed 6.29% 6.23% Jumbo 7/6 ARM 6.31% 6.36% Jumbo 5/6 ARM 6.31% 6.35% National averages of rates offered by more than 40 lenders, with a down payment of at least 20% and an applicant credit score of 680 to 739. (Updated 2/6/2026) Our Expert Picks for the Best Mortgage Lenders Best Mortgage Lenders Lender Best For Rocket Mortgage Best Overall, Best for Customer Experience, Best for First-Time Homebuyers Bank of America Best Big Bank Lender American Pacific Mortgage Best for Bad Credit PenFed Credit Union Best Credit Union Mortgage Lender Veterans United Home Loans Best for Veterans Rate Best for Fast Closing, Range of Loans How to Use Our Mortgage Rate Tables Our mortgage rate tables can help you see at a glance whether the rate that a particular lender is prepared to offer you on a new mortgage or refinancing is higher, lower, or in the same ballpark as other lenders. If it's higher, you might want to do some additional shopping around. Note that these rates are for borrowers with what lenders consider good
