---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-robo-advisors-8764849
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:51.464816+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
with a financial planner. Investors can also start investing using Sofi's Automated Investing platform with just $50, making it a powerful option for investors looking for professional advice before getting started. Best for Sophisticated Investors, Best for Cryptocurrency Portfolio Selection : M1 Finance Investopedia's Rating 4.2 out of 5 stars M1 Finance Account Minimum: $100 ($500 for retirement accounts)Fees: $3 monthly platform fee for clients, except those with total account balances of $10,000 Learn More (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It Best for Sophisticated Investors M1 Finance is best for sophisticated investors who want to choose their own stocks and ETFs and access customized portfolios focused on themes that align with their goals. M1 Finance also offers high-yield cash accounts and borrowing. Best for Cryptocurrency Portfolio Selection M1 Finance is our pick for best cryptocurrency portfolio selection because it is one of the few digital wealth management platforms that allows you to go beyond ETFs. You have to open a separate crypto account, but then you can build what M1 Finance calls a crypto pie, or a pre-made portfolio designed by experts, and use M1 Finance’s auto-invest features to manage it. Pros & Cons Pros Numerous customized expert pies or portfolios Thousands of ETFs and stocks for self-directed investors Fee-free plan High-yield cash account Low interest rate margin available Cons No quiz to determine investors’ goals or risk tolerance No tax-loss harvesting No financial advisors Platform requires some level of investment knowledge Overview M1 Finance, founded in 2015 by Brian Barnes, gives users more control over their portfolio selection compared to many other digitial wealth management platforms—which is why it’s best suited for sophisticated investors. M1 Finance offers Pies, and allows users to rebalance their self-directed stock and ETF assets according to their preferred asset allocation. The Pies are designed based on themes, including general investing, retirement planning, responsible investing, and income-earning investments. The $3 monthly fee—which applies to investors who do not meet the $10,000 account balance requirement—may not be worthwhile for investors with small balances. However, M1 Finance offers self-directed investors access to thousands of stocks and ETFs, cryptocurrency, as well as high-yield cash and lending. M1 Finance combines self-directed brokerage features with pre-built portfolios and automated portfolio management capabilities. M1 Finance does not provide advisory services and, therefore, is not considered a traditional robo-advisor. Best for Those Who Struggle to Save : Acorns Investopedia's Rating 4.5 out of 5 stars Courtesy of Acorns Account Minimum: $0Fees: $3/month for Bronze, $6/month for Silver, $12/month for Gold Learn More (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It Acorns is a good fit for people who find it difficult to save money to put toward investments. The platform has a “round-up” feature that automatically invests spare change. When people use the debit and credit cards linked to Acorns, the platform automatically takes the difference between the purchase amount and the next whole dollar and invests it. Pros & Cons Pros Helps customers to begin saving and investing The Multiplier feature enables faster investment growth Low-fee, diversified investment portfolio options Cons Fees can be burdensome to small accounts The round-up feature may take a long time to build a meaningful investment amount unless users contribute additional savings Limited account types Overview Acorns was founded in 2012 and is a valuable tool for those who have trouble saving money to invest. The platform rounds up a person’s spending and diverts the difference into an investment account. To date, $3 billion has been invested through this round-up feature. Acorns recommends a diversified investment portfolio to users based on their answers to several questions about their goals. Investors can also use the platform’s Round-Ups Multiplier, which will double, triple, or multiply by 10 the amount of the round-up. Note that if an investor only invests using the round-up tool, it
