---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-make-a-budget/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:52.554527+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:47 GMT
---
know how you've been spending your money, take some time to set goals for how you want to manage your money going forward. For example, if you're hoping to pay down your debt faster, set a goal for how much you'll put toward debt payments each month, then set goals to cut spending in certain categories to make sure it happens. It's crucial to be ambitious yet realistic with your goals. If you set your sights too high, it could be difficult to stay motivated when things don't work the way you want. Set specific, measurable, achievable, realistic and timely (SMART) goals that require you to stretch a little, but keep in mind that it can take time to develop the habits you want to have. It's easy to underestimate certain expenses, even if you have information to back up your assumptions. Make adjustments based on the reality of your budget as you get used to the process. Example: You owe $10,000 on a credit card. Your monthly minimum payments are $100, but you want to pay that down faster. You also want to save for a $5,000 vacation in two years and start an emergency fund. Using the numbers above, you have $1,250 left each month after your income and expenses are accounted for. You decide to allocate an additional $500 per month for paying off your credit card, $250 for the vacation and $500 for your emergency fund. Learn more: How to Set Financial Goals 4. Track Your Spending Tracking your income and setting goals for how you want to spend your money are important, but they won't do much good if you don't keep track of your spending. Tracking your spending can be tough, especially if you tend to make several purchases a day. Using a mix of credit cards, a debit card and cash can complicate the process even further. Consider using budgeting software such as You Need a Budget to aid in the process. Many of the best budgeting apps link to your financial accounts and can import your income and transactions into one place, making it easier to track and categorize each expense. In addition to the added accountability, tracking your spending can help you test your assumptions and goals and give you an idea of how to adjust them in future months. 5. Pick a Budgeting Plan Now that you have the basics down, it's time to start thinking about whether you want to use a specific budgeting plan beyond what's already been discussed. As you read about each way to approach budgeting, think about how it resonates with your money management style and pick the one you think will be most effective for you. Here are four common budgeting methods to consider. Envelope system: With this classic approach, sometimes called cash stuffing, you allocate your money for each spending category, then put that amount of cash in an envelope with the name of the category. When you've spent all your cash from a particular envelope, you're out of money for that given category for the rest of the month unless you shift money from another envelope. If you don't use much cash and prefer a digital approach, Goodbudget is a budgeting app that allows you to use the method. - 50/30/20 plan: The 50/30/20 budget involves allocating 50% of your take-home pay to necessities, such as housing, utilities and car payments; 30% to discretionary spending; and 20% to savings and paying down debt. Depending on your situation, you can adjust the proportions to fit your needs and goals. - Two-account plan: With the two-account plan, you add up your fixed monthly expenses and divide that amount by the number of paychecks you receive each month. Deposit that fixed-expense amount into one bank account when you get paid, and the remainder goes into
