---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-personal-loans-8761582
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:29.905651+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation. Best Personal Loans for February 2026 By Lars Peterson Full Bio Lars Peterson joined Investopedia in 2023 as a senior editor of financial product reviews with a focus on personal loans, credit cards, mortgages, and other financial products and services. Lars has over 20 years of experience as a writer and editor in personal finance, business, and small business. He has a master's in English from California State University, Long Beach. Learn about our editorial policies Updated January 29, 2026 Fact checked by Sana Siddiqui Fact checked by Sana Siddiqui Full Bio Sana Siddiqui is a former Research Analyst at Investopedia with over 10 years of experience focusing on financial products and services. She has a bachelor's in communications from Southern New Hampshire University. Sana's expertise in lending and underwriting gives her broad insight into the business practices of the financial industry. Learn about our editorial policies Best Personal Loans for February 2026 View All Best Personal Loans for February 2026 Top Picks LightStream SoFi Discover See More (6) Upgrade Upstart Citibank Lake Michigan Credit Union Navy Federal Credit Union Patelco Credit Union Compare Providers Why Trust Us Current Average Personal Loan Interest Rates How Does a Personal Loan Work? Who Is a Personal Loan Loan Good For? Common Personal Loan Terms Pros & Cons of Personal Loans Alternatives to Personal Loans Frequently Asked Questions Methodology Find the Best Lender For You Enter your estimated credit score, desired loan amount, and state to get instant results This will not affect your credit score Credit Score -- ≤ 620 ≤ 660 ≤ 720 720 + Loan Amount Find Lenders What to Know First A personal loan can help you cover an emergency expense, consolidate debt, make a home improvement, and more. The best personal loans feature low annual percentage rates (APRs), no fees, repayment terms that fit your budget, and an easy application process. Investopedia rigorously researched 59 lenders and ranked them on those features, including criteria informed by a survey of hundreds of personal loan borrowers. LightStream, the online lending subsidiary of Truist Bank, ticks all the boxes (competitive APRs, no fees, flexible repayment terms) and is our choice for the best personal loan. However, another lender may be better for you, depending on your circumstances. Learn more about LightStream and Investopedia’s other picks below. Today's Top Picks Best Overall, Best for Large Loan Amounts: LightStream Also Good for Large Loan Amounts: SoFi Best for Debt Consolidation: Discover Best for Emergency/Quick Funding: Upgrade Best for Low Minimum Credit Score: Upstart Best Big Bank: Citibank Best for Small Loan Amounts: Lake Michigan Credit Union Best for Military Members: Navy Federal Credit Union Best Credit Union: Patelco Credit Union Why Trust Us 59 Lenders reviewed 45 Loan features considered 2,655 Data points analyzed 284 Primary data sources used Investopedia collected data from dozens of lenders to evaluate the factors most important for borrowers. We used this data to rank each lender based on APRs and fees, loan amounts, repayment terms, customer experience, and more to provide unbiased, comprehensive reviews and help you make the right borrowing decision for your needs. Read our Full Methodology What to Know First A personal loan can help you cover an emergency expense, consolidate debt, make a home improvement, and more. The best personal loans feature low annual percentage rates (APRs), no fees, repayment terms that fit your budget, and an easy application process. Investopedia rigorously researched 59 lenders and ranked them on those features, including criteria informed by a survey of hundreds of personal loan borrowers. LightStream, the online lending subsidiary of Truist Bank, ticks all the boxes (competitive APRs, no fees, flexible repayment terms) and is our choice for the best personal loan. However, another lender may
