---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-long-does-an-accident-stay-on-your-insurance/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:19.452823+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:36 GMT
---
seniors. You may also be able to shave your costs by bundling your auto coverage with your renters or homeowners insurance policies. Some insurers offer discounts to policyholders who take a defensive driving course or demonstrate safe driving for a certain period of time. No matter what discounts your current auto insurer may offer, be sure to shop around and compare quotes with other carriers to find the best rate. If possible, it could help to reduce the number of miles you drive annually. Your average mileage plays a significant role in determining your risk and, by extension, your insurance rates. If you've started working from home or got a new job with a shorter commute, be sure to alert your insurance company so your premium can take your new driving habits into account. The Bottom Line Whether it's an accident, a moving violation or a traffic citation, a blemish on your driving record can spark an increase in your car insurance premiums. These types of rate increases typically last anywhere from three to five years, assuming you don't incur any new infractions. Improving your credit in the meantime could help reduce your premiumsâand strengthen your overall financial health in the process. Donât overpay for auto insurance If youâre looking for ways to cut back on monthly costs, it could be a good idea to see if you can save on your auto insurance. Find savingsAbout the author Marianne Hayes is a longtime freelance writer who's been covering personal finance for nearly a decade. She specializes in everything from debt management and budgeting to investing and saving. Marianne has written for CNBC, Redbook, Cosmopolitan, Good Housekeeping and more. Read more from Marianne
