---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/open-government/information-quality-guidelines/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:35.611334+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
individual is affiliated; - Identification and description of the information or data the individual is seeking to have corrected, including, for example, the number or title of the document(s) in which the information appears, the date of release, or the URL of the web page on which the information was disseminated by the Bureau; - A statement of the reasons for believing that the information or data is in error, including a statement of what the individual believes the correct information or data to be and how the information should be corrected; - A statement of how the disseminated information affects the individual. - - Privacy policy: The Bureau is authorized to collect the information provided under Section 515, 44 U.S.C. § 3516. The information is necessary to process any request for correction of information disseminated by Bureau. An individual is not required to furnish the information, but failure to do so may prevent the request for correction from being processed. The information provided will rarely be used for any purpose other than to process and respond to a request; however, the Bureau may disclose information to other federal entities such as Congress or the Department of Justice if required to do so by federal law. - The individual filing the complaint has the responsibility to clearly present the basis for the section 515 complaint. The Bureau may determine that the complaint does not meet the threshold requirements for processing, either because required elements are not addressed or because the allegations are too vague for the Bureau to take action. The burden of proof falls on the individual filing the complaint to show both that he or she is an affected party and that the information needs to be changed. An individual whose complaint is rejected may file an appeal in accordance with the procedures set forth below. - The Bureau will respond to a complaint and/or request for correction in writing within 60 days of receipt. If additional time beyond 60 days is required, the Bureau will notify the petitioner. The complaints manager will review the complaint for formal sufficiency and identify the appropriate organization for evaluating and responding to each complaint. The organizational component responsible for disseminating the information will determine whether an adequate case has been presented to require correction of the information and or data identified in the complaint. Administrative appeal process If a petitioner is not satisfied with the Bureau response to a Section 515 complaint, the petitioner may administratively appeal the initial decision. Any such appeal must be submitted to the organization component that disseminated the information within 30 calendar days of receipt of the initial decision. The appeal must identify the original request for correction and describe how the Bureau response failed to resolve the request. The appeal will be evaluated by a Bureau official other than the initial reviewer who has organizational knowledge of the information sought to be corrected. Bureau will respond to the appeal in writing within 60 calendar days of receipt. If the response will require an extended period for review, the Bureau will notify the petitioner. Requests concerning information on which the Bureau sought public comments The correction and appeal process set forth in these guidelines does not apply upon first publication to information disseminated by the Bureau through a comprehensive public comment process – e.g., Federal Register notices of proposed rulemakings, regulatory analyses, and requests for comments on information collections subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act. In most cases, comments concerning the quality of the disseminated information can be addressed through these procedures, such as by responding to a request for correction of the information in the preamble to a final rule. In unusual circumstances, the Bureau may determine that earlier consideration of such comments in accordance with these guidelines would be appropriate. For example, the procedures
