---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/personal-finance/articles/-/learn/what-you-need-to-know-about-car-insurance/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:27.842959+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
however, do not allow credit information to be used for underwriting auto insurance. - Your deductible. High deductibles reduce your total premium. - What is a car insurance deductible? A deductible is the amount of money you'll be required to pay out of pocket before your insurance company will compensate you. For example, imagine you have collision coverage with a deductible of $500, and you're involved in an accident that requires $2,700 in repairs. After you file a claim, your insurer should agree to compensate you for $2,200. If an insurance policy helps protect you against significant financial loss in the event of an accident, the deductible helps protect the insurer by discouraging claims for minor damage and better distributing financial risk. In other words, insurance companies don't have to pay for every minor dent and scratch, which frees up funds to cover damage that might otherwise be financially ruinous to a policyholder. What types of car insurance coverage are available? Policies differ, but most car insurers offer several types of coverage packaged together. These protect you from out-of-pocket costs in all kinds of situations, including vehicle and property damage, medical bills and even legal fees. Following are some of the most common types of car insurance: Liability insurance covers damage to other parties when you're legally at fault in an accident, including injuries, damage to vehicles, the destruction of other objects like a house or a street sign, and legal fees. - Collision insurance covers damage to your own vehicle if you're involved in a collision with another driver. - Comprehensive insurance covers damage to your vehicle from non-collision events or acts of nature, such as break-ins, severe weather, a cracked windshield or an accident involving an animal. - Medical payments/personal injury protection covers medical costs for the driver and passengers in an accident regardless of fault. - Uninsured/underinsured motorist bodily injury or property damage insurance covers medical costs for your injuries or property damage if you're in an accident with an uninsured or underinsured driver. - Explore insurance quotes here. Equifax does not sell or underwrite insurance. How do I find the best car insurance rates? Understanding the mechanics of auto insurance is important if you're looking to save money on your policy without sacrificing the quality of coverage. Here are five ways to help make sure you're getting the best rates. Do your research. You'll only find the best coverage (and the best prices) if you investigate all your options. Don't be afraid to shop around. - Consider your credit report. In states where it's allowed, insurers may use your credit report and credit score to determine your premium, so try to be financially responsible by making credit card and other payments on time, keeping an eye on credit use and checking your credit score regularly. A higher score and a clean credit report may indicate that you will be less expensive to insure, thus reducing your costs. - Consolidate insurance policies. Bundling two or more policies (such as homeowners and auto insurance) from the same company can earn you a big discount. - Increase your deductible. Higher deductibles mean lower premiums, which means more money in your pocket. However, before you commit to a policy with a high deductible, make sure you know your risk profile. If you're prone to accidents, this may not be the best option for you. - Seek other discounts. Contact your insurer to find out if you're eligible for any discounts. For example, insurance companies often offer reduced premiums for policyholders who are considered safe drivers, or for cars with up-to-date safety features. - Get your free credit score today! We get it, credit scores are important. A monthly free credit score & Equifax credit report are available with Equifax Core CreditTM. No credit card required.
