---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/preventing-fraud/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:09.649953+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
place a fraud alert and/or security freeze on your credit reports, which can help protect your credit and avoid fraud. A fraud alert instructs lenders to verify your identity before processing any credit applications received in your name. - A credit freeze restricts access to your credit report so lenders cannot check your credit in connection with new credit applications. - Either of these measures can protect you from criminals attempting to obtain credit in your name and then damaging your credit scores when they fail to repay. (See a comparison of fraud alerts and credit freezes below.) Tip: It's possible to place both a fraud alert and a security freeze on your credit reports, but doing so isn't generally necessary, since a credit freeze will block credit checks related to new credit applications, preventing creditors from seeing the fraud alert. 2. Report Identity Theft to the FTC The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) website IdentityTheft.gov provides an interactive form for reporting identity theft and links to resources relevant to your complaint. The site also produces an Identity Theft Victim's Complaint and Affidavit you can give law enforcement and use to place an extended fraud alert on your credit reports. 3. Review Your Credit Reports Check your credit reports from all three national credit bureaus (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax) for signs of unfamiliar accounts or credit applications. Each account listed on your credit report should include contact information for the creditor that you can use to inquire about any suspicious entries. As appropriate, let the creditors know the activity was unauthorized and ask them to investigate. You also have the right to dispute credit report information with each credit bureau. By filing a dispute, you're requesting to have unauthorized or inaccurate activities corrected or removed from your credit reports. 4. Look for Additional Signs of Fraud If you believe (or know for sure) that fraudsters have obtained your personal data, it's important to look beyond credit reports for signs of fraud and report them as appropriate: Review bank and credit card statements for unauthorized transactions. - Check for your personal information on dark web sites. An identity theft monitoring service such as one included in an Experian premium membership can provide alerts if your personal data appears on dark web sites. - Check your IRS and Social Security accounts. Set up a personal IRS account and Social Security user account if you haven't already, and check for indications that your tax refunds or benefits are being claimed without your knowledge. If you're told an account already exists when you try to set up a new one, you should contact the relevant agency and report potential fraud. - 5. Contact Creditors and Financial Institutions If you believe a fraudulent account has been opened in your name, or discover unauthorized transactions, notify the relevant creditors and financial institutions immediately and ask them to investigate. 6. Notify Appropriate Authorities Identity theft and identity fraud can take many forms, and it's important to notify the appropriate law enforcement agencies for the type of crime you've experienced. If you share your FTC complaint and affidavit with local authorities, they may refer you to appropriate state and federal agencies and/or use the information to coordinate their activities with other agencies. 7. Change Passwords If any account information turns up in dark web scans, or you receive information about a data breach at any company or institution where you have an online account, update your passwords immediately. Even if you don't think your data is compromised, changing passwords regularly is good practice, as is using a free password manager that generates and stores secure and unique passwords for you. Fraud Alert vs. Credit Freeze Fraud alerts and credit freezes are two of the best ways to avoid fraud and protect your credit. There are multiple differences between fraud
