---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/personal-finance/articles/-/learn/comparing-new-vs-used-car-loans/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:44.962194+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
used car compared to a new one. Remember that the rates you'll be offered for a loan will also be affected by your financial history and credit scores. Lenders use your credit scores as one factor when considering your creditworthiness, or how likely you are to pay your bills on time. Generally speaking, the higher your credit scores, the more creditworthy you will appear to lenders and the more likely you are to receive favorable terms on your loan. It's a good idea to check your credit scores to gauge your financial health and regularly review your credit reports to make sure the information is accurate and complete. Advantages of buying a new car While it's true that a brand-new vehicle will almost always cost you more, new cars do have their benefits. New cars are likely to be more reliable, and the lack of wear-and-tear means they'll be less costly to maintain and repair. That reliability often translates to better warranties for new cars, which means you can feel more secure even if something does go wrong. You'll also have more consumer choice, including abundant customization options and access to the most current technology and features. Is it easier to finance a new car? It's usually easier to secure a loan for a new car than a used car because lenders can more easily determine the value of a new car. Lenders are also more likely to assume a new car is in good condition when you drive it off the lot. While it's generally a good idea to enlist a professional mechanic or similar inspector to evaluate the condition of a used car before you commit to a loan, a new car is likely ready to go as-is. Advantages of buying a used car Used cars are a good fit if you're on a budget, as they're usually less pricey and cost less to insure. You'll also find that used vehicles have dramatically lower depreciation rates. Depreciation refers to the drop in a car's value that occurs with normal use. New cars generally depreciate a whopping 20% in their first year, so you lose a big chunk of the value simply by driving your car off the lot. With a used car, this first-year depreciation occurred before you owned the vehicle. Additional depreciation happens at a much slower rate, so you generally lose less of your initial investment when you buy used. Why are used car loan rates higher? While you'll almost certainly save money on the purchase price by choosing a used car over a new one, that doesn't mean used car loans are always the most affordable option. The interest rates for used car loans tend to be higher than those for new cars for a couple of reasons. First, it's harder to estimate a used car's resale value. That means it's also more difficult to estimate how the car's value may change over time as it depreciates. Second, used cars come with a higher likelihood of mechanical issues, making them a riskier investment overall. Your car acts as collateral for the lender. If something happens during the course of the loan and you are unable to keep up with payments, the lender can repossess the car to cover the remainder of what they're owed. If the car has not been accurately valued or no longer functions as it should, the lender may not fully recover their investment. Used cars can be great options for some borrowers, but it's important to understand that the interest rate and other loan terms may not be as favorable as those offered on new cars. Which kind of car is right for me? Is it better to finance a new car or a used one? The answer depends on your financial situation and what you're looking for in a new
