---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/cfpb-ombudsman/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:17.182482+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
CFPB Ombudsman The CFPB Ombudsman’s Office is an independent, impartial, and confidential resource to help you informally resolve process issues arising from CFPB activities. You may want to contact the CFPB Ombudsman if you are a consumer, financial entity, consumer or trade group, or anyone else who has a process issue from interacting with the CFPB and you: have not resolved that issue after contacting the CFPB itself or - want to share it with the CFPB Ombudsman in confidence - Our role In keeping with ombudsman principles, we are: Independent The CFPB Ombudsman reports to the CFPB’s Deputy Director with access to the Director. This reporting line ensures the Ombudsman’s independence within the CFPB. It also allows us to act as an early warning system and serve as a catalyst for change. Impartial We do not advocate for one side, but for a fair process. Confidential We have put safeguards in place to preserve confidentiality. We will not share your identifying information outside the Ombudsman’s Office unless you tell us we can. We also may have to share it if there is a threat of imminent risk of serious harm, you have raised an issue of government fraud, waste, or abuse, or if required by law. Our work FAQs Find answers to some of the most frequently asked questions about the CFPB Ombudsman’s Office. Resources Share our printable brochure and information sheet with your friends, family, and colleagues to introduce them to the CFPB Ombudsman’s Office. Reports Our Office Charter requires that we submit an annual report to the CFPB Director no later than November 15 each year. This report includes information on systemic issues reviewed that year, our individual inquiry analysis, descriptions of our inreach and outreach activities, and more. Charter The CFPB Ombudsman’s Office Charter sets out how we do our work. It includes such topics as the ombudsman principles, office focus areas, access to people and information, and regular reporting. Page last modified @
