---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/contact-us/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:09.921119+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Have questions? Start here. Whether you have questions about the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), or about a consumer financial product or service, or you want to submit a complaint, start here. We’ll point you in the right direction. Ask a question Browse Ask CFPB Browse answers to hundreds of financial questions. Call us (855) 411-2372 TTY/TTD: (855) 729-2372 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. ET, Monday through Friday (except federal holidays). More than 180 languages available. Submit a complaint Having a problem with a financial product or service? We help consumers connect with financial companies to understand issues, fix errors, and get direct responses about problems. Tell us about your issue—we’ll forward it to the company and work to get you a response, generally within 15 days. For information about checks related to Lexington Law and CreditRepair.com, contact JND Legal Administration. Information is available on their website at cfpb-lexlaw.org . About the CFPB Careers at the CFPB | Learn about CFPB career opportunities Email: CFPB_Jobs@cfpb.gov | ---|---| Contracts and procurement | To request information about doing business with us, including information about our contract and procurement processes Email: CFPB_Procurement@cfpb.gov | ---|---| Employment information | To request or submit information about employment at the CFPB Email: cfpb-hr@cfpb.gov | ---|---| CFPB compliance Accessibility feedback | To submit feedback about the accessibility of our web content To submit a Section 504 request | ---|---| Equal employment opportunity (EEO) complaints | To request EEO information or file a complaint about acts of workplace discrimination within the CFPB (for employees or applicants of the CFPB, only) Email: CFPB_EEO@cfpb.gov Send mail to: ATTN: Office of Civil Rights Please note that this office does not handle civil rights violations experienced while using consumer financial products and services. To submit a complaint about consumer financial products or services, please use our online complaint form. | ---|---| Paperwork Reduction Act | For questions or information about our compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Email: CFPB_PRA@cfpb.gov | ---|---| Plain writing feedback | To submit feedback about our compliance with the Plain Writing Act | ---|---| Whistleblower tips and leads | For information about reporting illegal activities and whistleblower protections Email: whistleblower@cfpb.gov | ---|---| Financial education programs and offices Financial Education Exchange (FinEx) | To request information about our Financial Education Exchange (FinEx) program Email: CFPB_FinEx@cfpb.gov | ---|---| K-12 Financial education | To request information about our K-12 Financial education programs and resources | ---|---| Students | To request information about our resources for college students Email: students@cfpb.gov | ---|---| Your Money, Your Goals Toolkit | To request information about the Your Money, Your Goals Toolkit | ---|---| Office of Community Affairs | Email: empowerment@cfpb.gov | ---|---| Office for Older Americans | Email: olderamericans@cfpb.gov | ---|---| Office of Servicemember Affairs | Email: military@cfpb.gov | ---|---| General office contact information Administrative Adjudication Docket clerk | Email: docketclerk@cfpb.gov | ---|---| Office of Private Sector Engagement | ---| Office of Competition and Innovation | Email: OCI@cfpb.gov | ---|---| Office of Intergovernmental Affairs | Email: IGA@cfpb.gov | ---|---| Office of Minority and Women Inclusion | To request information about Diversity and Inclusion at the CFPB To submit a voluntary Diversity and Inclusion Self-Assessment | ---|---| Office of Public Engagement | Email: PublicEngagement@cfpb.gov | ---|---| Information inquiries Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests | To submit a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request or inquire about our FOIA request process Email: FOIA@cfpb.gov Send mail to: CFPB, Attn: Chief FOIA Officer Note: When submitting FOIA requests, please be sure to include all required information. CFPB FOIA Manager: Danielle Duvall Adams | ---|---| Press inquiries | To submit a press inquiry or inquire about press opportunities Email: press@cfpb.gov | ---|---| Data inquiries | To submit an inquiry about public data Email: CFPB_OCDO@cfpb.gov | ---|---| Policy, supervision, and regulation inquiries Amicus brief requests | To request information about
