---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/articles/markets/082615/5-biggest-canadian-insurance-companies.asp
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:08:14.331075+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Table of Contents Expand Table of Contents Fairfax Financial Holdings Manulife Financial Great-West Lifeco Sun Life Financial Intact Financial FAQs The Bottom Line The 5 Big Names in Canadian Insurance By J.B. Maverick Full Bio J.B. Maverick is an active trader, commodity futures broker, and stock market analyst 17+ years of experience, in addition to 10+ years of experience as a finance writer and book editor. Learn about our editorial policies Updated January 09, 2026 Reviewed by Amy Drury Reviewed by Amy Drury Full Bio Amy is an ACA and the CEO and founder of OnPoint Learning, a financial training company delivering training to financial professionals. She has nearly two decades of experience in the financial industry and as a financial instructor for industry professionals and individuals. Learn about our Financial Review Board Fact checked by Katrina Munichiello Fact checked by Katrina Munichiello Full Bio Katrina Ávila Munichiello is an experienced editor, writer, fact-checker, and proofreader with more than fourteen years of experience working with print and online publications. Learn about our editorial policies Close Key Takeaways Fairfax Financial is a relative newcomer to the insurance scene, having been founded in 1985.Manulife Financial is the largest insurance provider in Canada and offers a broad range of financial services.Great-West Lifeco, the third-largest insurer, operates as a holding company for six subsidiaries.Fourth on the list, Sun Life Financial, based in Toronto, is one of the oldest insurance providers, having been established in 1865.Coming in at number five, Intact Financial is Canada’s oldest insurance company still operating and offers personal, property, casualty, and commercial insurance. Investopedia Answers ASK Around the world, insurance companies have combined with brokerage companies, banks, and other financial institutions to build their business and offer their customers a wider range of services. That is certainly the case for the Canadian insurance industry, which has experienced a number of acquisitions and mergers in recent years. Below are the five largest Canadian insurance companies, defined by trailing 12-month (TTM) revenue as of Sept. 30, 2025. Revenue amounts can reflect insurance premiums charged to policyholders, earnings from investments, and other financial products embedded in investment products, such as mutual funds. Total assets in each company’s most recent annual report are provided as well. It’s important to note that some financial firms might be larger than the companies listed here, but their insurance businesses, if they have them, are not a major driver of their revenue. Asset figures are stated as provided by each company. Conversion is approximately C$1 to $0.72 U.S. dollars. 1. Fairfax Financial Holdings Fairfax Financial Holdings (Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX): FFH) has its headquarters in Toronto. Its major focus is property and casualty insurance and reinsurance, plus related investment management. The company earned C$62.4 billion ($44.93 billion U.S.) in TTM revenue as of Sept. 30, 2025. At the end of 2024, Fairfax Financial had total assets of C$96.78 billion ($69.68 billion U.S.). Fairfax Financial was founded in 1985 on the principles of fair, honest dealings and friendly acquisition of companies. It operates in a decentralized fashion, with each of its companies run by its own president but overseen from a financial review and performance standpoint by Fairfax Financial. 2. Manulife Financial Manulife Financial Corp. (TSX: MFC; New York Stock Exchange (NYSE): MFC) is the largest insurance provider in Canada. It also offers other financial services such as financial advice, wealth management, and asset management solutions. Headquartered in Toronto, the company earned C$58.69 billion ($42.26 billion U.S.) in TTM revenue as of Sept. 30, 2025. This included insurance premiums and income earned from investing those premiums. Manulife’s total assets as of the end of 2024 were C$978.81 billion ($704.74 billion U.S.). Manulife operates in Canada, Asia, and Europe, as well as in the United States through its John Hancock subsidiary. At the end of 2024, the company served over 36
