---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-life-insurance-companies-8763666
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:17.041413+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
coverage limits for many policy types, and a stellar grade from credit rating agency AM Best, Nationwide is at the top of our list of the best life insurance companies. Its three living benefit riders—which come at no extra cost— also helped boost its overall score. Best Life Insurance for Children Nationwide is a great choice for anyone looking to insure a child. Reason #1: You can buy as large a whole life policy as you like for a child. Reason #2: The child can take over the policy when they’re an adult. Reason #3: If you buy a child term rider on your own policy, the rider can cover them until they’re 22 and be made into a permanent life insurance policy for the child without a health exam. Best Life Insurance for People Over 50 Many of the features that make Nationwide our favorite pick overall also propelled it to the top of our list of the best life insurance for people over 50. However, it also scored well for this age group because you can purchase up to $1.5 million in coverage without a medical exam and receive an instant decision. And there’s no minimum age requirement for a final expense policy worth up to $50,000. Pros & Cons Pros Outstanding selection of product types Superior financial strength rating (A+) 3 living benefits included in many policies Stand-out child life insurance features Very few customer complaints to state regulators Cons Won’t sell term life to applicants over 70 No live chat for customer service No way to start a claim online Doesn’t pay dividends on whole life policies Overview Nationwide rises above competitors on a multitude of fronts. It has one of the widest product selections Investopedia saw among the 45 companies we surveyed. Ditto that for riders—only Ameritas and Brighthouse Financial offer as many. Nationwide’s riders include three free living benefits that let you use your death benefit while you’re alive if you develop a chronic, critical, or terminal illness. Customers generally like the company, lodging few complaints with state regulators and pushing it to No. 3 out of 23 companies in the 2025 J.D. Power U.S. Individual Life Insurance Study. There were only a few areas where the company fell short compared to its competitors. For instance, it doesn’t pay dividends on its whole life policies, so if you want that, you’d be better off looking for a mutual company such as Lafayette or MassMutual. And you can’t buy a term life insurance policy from Nationwide if you’re over 70. Founded in 1925, Nationwide is based in Columbus, Ohio. Policy Types & Riders Available Policy Types Term lifeWhole lifeChildren’s whole lifeUniversal lifeIndexed universal lifeVariable universal lifeNo-medical-exam life (term)Final expense Available Riders Term conversionChild termGuaranteed insurability riderWaiver of premiumAccidental death benefitTerminal illnessLong-term careChronic illnessCritical illness Best Term Life Insurance : Banner by Legal & General Banner Life Financial Strength Rating: A+Complaints: Much better than expected for company size Get a Quote (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It Low premiums and terms lasting up to 40 years helped propel Banner to the top of our list of best term life insurance providers. Many competitors don’t offer term life insurance that covers you for that long. The minimum death benefit is $100,000, with no maximum, making these policies suitable for individuals with a wide range of coverage needs. You can renew a Banner term policy annually and convert it to a permanent life insurance plan with no additional health examination required. And applying is easy, with an online quote and application process. Pros & Cons Pros Competitive premiums for term life insurance Lengthy 40-year terms available No-medical-exam policies have no coverage caps Cons Fewer permanent policy options than competitors Not many riders available No live chat Overview Many people choose term life insurance because the
