---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/cryptocurrency-news-5114163
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:53.235677+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Slips Below $90,000 Bitcoin Has Gone to the Bears. Saylor's Strategy Is Still Leaning In. Strategy's Michael Saylor Has a Message for Bitcoin Investors as Its Price Falls Bitcoin Is Recovering After a Selloff. Here Come the Bullish Price Forecasts. Bitcoin's Price Dropped Below $100,000 Today For the First Time in Months Bitcoin Is Sliding Amid Rate Cut Uncertainty. Here's Why 'Uptober' Never Happened. President Trump Pardons Binance Founder. Which Tokens Are Getting a Lift? Watch These Bitcoin Price Levels as Cryptocurrency Is Back Above $110,000 Bitcoin is Sinking Back Toward $100,000. Where Does it Go From Here? Here's What Investors Need to Know About This Weekend's Massive Crypto Rout Watch These Bitcoin Price Levels as Cryptocurrency Rebounds From Sell-Off More Multi-Asset Crypto ETFs Are On the Way. What Investors Need to Know. Bitcoin Price Levels to Watch After Cryptocurrency Hits Record High Above $125,000 Crypto Stocks Are Getting a Lift After Bitcoin's Price Touches a Record High Bitcoin Touches Record Price Above $125,000 Stablecoin Companies Are Worth Billions. But What Do They Actually Do? There's New Tax Guidance on Crypto. Here's Why That Matters. Treasury Stocks Are Crypto's Story of the Moment. Here's What Investors Should Know. Several New Crypto ETFs Landed In September. What Should Investors Think? Monitor These Critical Bitcoin Price Levels After Cryptocurrency Drops Below $110,000 Bitcoin Is Back Below $110,000. Here's What to Know About the Latest Crypto Sell-Off. SEC Approves Standards That Could Lead to a Flurry of New Crypto ETFs Dogecoin Is Still Here—And Now There's an ETF That Tracks It Gemini Stock Opens Above IPO Price, Then Slips, in Trading Debut Altcoin Treasury Stocks Are All the Rage Lately. Here's What Investors Need to Know. Gemini's Raised IPO Range Indicates Strong Demand for New Crypto Stocks Wall Street is Sizing Up Recent Crypto IPO Bullish. Some Analysts Are Lukewarm. The Winklevoss Twins Are Behind Crypto's Next High-Profile IPO. What You Need to Know. The Trumps Are Leaning Further Into Crypto. Two New Listings Show Just How Far. Dogecoin ETFs—and More—Could Land Soon if the SEC OKs New Rules Watch These Bitcoin Levels as Price Drops Below $110,000 for the First Time Since Early July Bitcoin and Crypto Stocks Surge as Powell's Rate-Cut Hint Revives Risk Appetite Bitcoin Traders Position for Jackson Hole. What Powell's Big Speech Could Mean for Crypto. It's Been The 'Summer of Stablecoins,' Goldman Says. Will Traditional Finance Be Upended? Trump-Backed Crypto Token WLFI Has a Treasury Company. Here's What That Means. ETHZilla Follows Strategy's Playbook With Ethereum Treasury Plans. Its Stock Is Soaring Crypto Stocks Gain as Bitcoin Trades Near Its All-Time High Liquid Staking Tokens Aren't Securities, SEC Says. What That Means for Crypto Investors. Why BitMine—Sort of Like Strategy for Ether—Is Hot With Investors Bitcoin Slips, Coinbase Stock Drops as Market's Friday Ills Hit Crypto Coinbase Stock Slides After Q2 Sales Miss Estimates Crypto's Upward Run Has Some Worried They've Missed the Boat, Survey Says Goldman Sachs, BNY Mellon Step into Tokenized Money Market Funds Trump Signs GENIUS Act Into Law, in Major Milestone for Crypto Industry House Passes 'Crypto Week' Bills, Sending GENIUS Act to Trump’s Desk Rising Price, Record ETF Inflows—Is Ether Turning a Corner? Trump's Support for the GENIUS Act Lifts Bitcoin, Crypto Stocks After Minor Hiccup Jamie Dimon Says JPMorgan Plans to Get More Involved in Stablecoins Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up
