---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/do-fraud-alerts-expire/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:58.804142+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:23 GMT
---
submit the request to one of the three major credit bureausâExperian, TransUnion or Equifaxâand it will forward your request on to the other two. You can use Experian's Fraud Alert Center to add an initial or active-duty alert to your credit report online. You can also upload a copy of your identity theft report or police report to request an extended fraud alert, or submit the request and supporting documents by mail. While fraud alerts can last one to seven years, you can remove them early. Though requests to add a fraud alert can be submitted to one bureau and are forwarded to the other two, to remove a fraud alert, you need to contact each of the three major credit bureaus separately to process your request. Is a Fraud Alert Right for You? If you suspect or know you've been a victim of identity theft or fraud, or you're actively deployed, adding a fraud alert could help protect you from credit fraud. You also have the right to reapply for another free fraud alert if your initial fraud alert expires. Another option is to freeze your credit files, which keeps potential new creditors from accessing your credit reports to open new accounts, although there are many exceptions. Freezing and unfreezing your credit reports is also free; however, you need to request the freeze from each bureau individually. You'll also need to remember to unfreeze your reports with each bureau whenever you want to apply for a loan or credit card. How Else Can You Protect Your Identity and Credit? In addition to fraud alerts and credit freezes, there are a few steps you can take to help protect your identity and financial accounts: Don't share your personal information with anyone who initiates contact with you by email, phone or text message unless you're expecting the message. - Use multifactor authentication to help keep your accounts secure. - Use a password manager to create strong and unique passwords for your accounts. - Request electronic statements to avoid the risk of mail fraud. - Don't carry your Social Security card in your wallet. - Avoid using public Wi-Fi networks, and never log in to your online accounts if you're on a public network. - Despite your best efforts, it's important to be aware of what's happening with your accounts in case a fraudster or hacker slips past your defenses. Your personal information could also be leaked in a data breach, which could increase your risk of identity theft or fraud. Monitor Your Credit and Identity for Suspicious Changes You can keep an eye on your credit reports with free credit report monitoring from Experian. You'll automatically receive alerts if there's a potentially suspicious change, such as a new credit inquiry or account. Experian also offers identity theft protection services, which include monitoring of additional databases, dark web monitoring, identity theft insurance, lost wallet assistance and access to U.S.-based fraud resolution specialists. Have you been a victim of identity theft? Add another layer of protection to your credit by notifying lenders to take extra steps to verify your identity before processing new credit. Add a fraud alertAbout the author Louis DeNicola is freelance personal finance and credit writer who works with Fortune 500 financial services firms, FinTech startups, and non-profits to teach people about money and credit. His clients include BlueVine, Discover, LendingTree, Money Management International, U.S News and Wirecutter. Read more from Louis
