---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-information-is-updated-continuously/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:29.137778+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:22 GMT
---
update each credit bureau on somewhat different schedules, credit scores based on data from different credit bureaus, even if calculated at the exact same date and time, using identical scoring software, will seldom be the same. This variability in credit reports and scores is normal, and lenders recognize it. When making lending decisions, many lenders compensate for these variations by using scores based on data from two or even all three credit bureaus. Learn more: Why Are My Credit Scores Different? Check Your Credit Report With Experian Continual change is the normal state of credit reports, and it's typical for credit scores based on those reports to shift up and down from month to month. If you adopt good credit management habits, over the long term you can expect score improvement. You can see updates to your credit report firsthand with a free credit report from Experian. You'll get an updated Experian credit report every day you log in to your account and check your report. Review your report and look for things you can do that may improve your score, such as bringing past-due accounts current. Whatâs on your credit report? Stay up to date with your latest credit informationâand get your FICOÂ® Score for free. Get your free reportNo credit card required About the author Jim Akin is freelance writer based in Connecticut. With experience as both a journalist and a marketing professional, his most recent focus has been in the area of consumer finance and credit scoring. Read more from Jim
