---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/rules/frbp
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:09:29.106985+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 01 Dec 2025 14:30:57 GMT
---
Notice When No Discharge Is Granted. - Rule 4007. Determining Whether a Debt Is Dischargeable. - Rule 4008. Reaffirmation Agreement and Supporting Statement. - - PART V—COURTS AND CLERKSRule 5001. Court Operations; Clerks' Offices. - Rule 5002. Restrictions on Approving Court Appointments. - Rule 5003. Records to Be Kept by the Clerk. - Rule 5004. Disqualifying a Bankruptcy Judge. - Rule 5005. Filing Papers and Sending Copies to the United States Trustee. - Rule 5006. Providing Certified Copies. - Rule 5007. Record of Proceedings; Transcripts. - Rule 5008. Chapter 7—Notice That a Presumption of Abuse Has Arisen Under §707(b). - Rule 5009. Closing a Chapter 7, 12, 13, or 15 Case; Declaring Liens Satisfied. - Rule 5010. Reopening a Case. - Rule 5011. Motion to Withdraw a Case or Proceeding or to Abstain from Hearing a Proceeding; Staying a Proceeding. - Rule 5012. Chapter 15—Agreement to Coordinate Proceedings. - - PART VI—COLLECTION AND LIQUIDATION OF THE ESTATERule 6001. Burden of Proving the Validity of a Postpetition Transfer. - Rule 6002. Custodian's Report to the United States Trustee. - Rule 6003. Prohibition on Granting Certain Applications and Motions Made Immediately After the Petition Is Filed. - Rule 6004. Use, Sale, or Lease of Property. - Rule 6005. Employing an Appraiser or Auctioneer. - Rule 6006. Assuming, Rejecting, or Assigning an Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease. - Rule 6007. Abandoning or Disposing of Property. - Rule 6008. Redeeming Property from a Lien or a Sale to Enforce a Lien. - Rule 6009. Right of the Trustee or Debtor in Possession to Prosecute and Defend Proceedings. - Rule 6010. Avoiding an Indemnifying Lien or a Transfer to a Surety. - Rule 6011. Claiming Patient Records Scheduled for Destruction in a Health-Care-Business Case. - - PART VII—ADVERSARY PROCEEDINGSRule 7001. Types of Adversary Proceedings. - Rule 7002. References to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. - Rule 7003. Commencing an Adversary Proceeding. - Rule 7004. Process; Issuing and Serving a Summons and Complaint. - Rule 7005. Serving and Filing Pleadings and Other Papers. - Rule 7007. Pleadings Allowed. - Rule 7007.1. Corporate Ownership Statement. - Rule 7008. General Rules of Pleading. - Rule 7009. Pleading Special Matters. - Rule 7010. Form of Pleadings in an Adversary Proceeding. - Rule 7012. Defenses; Effect of a Motion; Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings and Other Procedural Matters. - Rule 7013. Counterclaim and Crossclaim. - Rule 7014. Third-Party Practice. - Rule 7015. Amended and Supplemental Pleadings. - Rule 7016. Pretrial Procedures. - Rule 7017. Plaintiff and Defendant; Capacity; Public Officers. - Rule 7018. Joinder of Claims. - Rule 7019. Required Joinder of Parties. - Rule 7020. Permissive Joinder of Parties. - Rule 7021. Misjoinder and Nonjoinder of Parties. - Rule 7022. Interpleader. - Rule 7023. Class Actions. - Rule 7023.1. Derivative Actions. - Rule 7023.2. Adversary Proceedings Relating to Unincorporated Associations. - Rule 7024. Intervention. - Rule 7025. Substitution of Parties. - Rule 7026. Duty to Disclose; General Provisions Governing Discovery. - Rule 7027. Depositions to Perpetuate Testimony. - Rule 7028. Persons Before Whom Depositions May Be Taken. - Rule 7029. Stipulations About Discovery Procedure. - Rule 7030. Depositions by Oral Examination. - Rule 7031. Depositions by Written Questions. - Rule 7032. Using Depositions in Court Proceedings. - Rule 7033. Interrogatories to Parties. - Rule 7034. Producing Documents, Electronically Stored Information, and Tangible Things, or Entering onto Land, for Inspection and Other Purposes. - Rule 7035. Physical and Mental Examinations. - Rule 7036. Requests for Admission. - Rule 7037. Failure to Make Disclosures or to Cooperate in Discovery; Sanctions. - Rule 7040. Scheduling Cases for Trial. - Rule 7041. Dismissing Adversary Proceedings. - Rule 7042. Consolidating Adversary Proceedings; Separate Trials. - Rule 7052. Findings and Conclusions by the Court; Judgment on Partial Findings. - Rule 7054. Judgments; Costs. - Rule 7055. Default; Default Judgment. - Rule 7056. Summary
