---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/help/article-list/-/h/c/products/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:18.380061+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Hello, how can we help? How do I limit the sharing of my information? How do I lock my Equifax credit report? How can I view my Equifax credit reports from the past? What is Internet Scanning? How does the primary adult member view the masked alerts in the Family Plan product? Where can I find the ID theft insurance benefits that are part of my Equifax product? How can l view my Equifax credit report? How do I opt out of marketing emails from Equifax? What if I forgot my username or password to sign in? How do I redeem a promo code I received in a breach notification letter? Can my Equifax product prevent or detect all forms of identity theft? What is a credit report confirmation number? What types of credit score monitoring alerts can I receive? What types of information can Internet Scanning find? How does Internet Scanning work? I received an Internet scanning alert, and only some of my personal information has been found online. Does this mean that I don't have to worry about it? What is the difference between credit scores from Equifax and credit scores from FICO? How do I customize my credit score monitoring alerts? Why did I receive a credit monitoring alert? What should I do if I receive a credit monitoring alert? What if I don't recognize the information given in an alert? I am not receiving alerts -- is the product working? What types of alerts will I receive through my Equifax product? I got an alert saying an account was closed on my credit report, but the account is still open and the last activity was just a few months ago. What happened? How do I update my account profile information? Can I change my usernames and passwords on my financial accounts from the Member Center? How do I add another account in my product to receive alerts? Why was I charged for my annual Equifax product again? When will I be charged for my products? What is a free trial? Why is a credit card required for a free trial? How do I update the credit card used to pay for my product? If I enroll my child in the Family Plan, how long does their Equifax credit report remain locked? What is the additional adult feature included in the Family Plan? How long does verification of a minor child for the Family Plan product last? If my Equifax credit report is locked, can any information, including new accounts, be posted? What if a minor child's credit report already exists in the Equifax system at the time of enrollment in the Family Plan product? How do I redeem a gift certificate or promotion code? I live outside of the United States. Can I still obtain one of your credit products? How do I cancel my product? What's the difference between a credit report lock and a security freeze? Why can't I lock my Equifax credit report when it's frozen? What type of support can I expect with Equifax® Identity Restoration? How do I replace a security freeze with a lock on my Equifax credit report? Where can I see the products I've previously ordered? Are there any special product limits during the free trial period? What’s included in the free trial? What is the status of my product purchase? How does the Family Plan work for minors? What is a masked alert in the Family Plan product? How does Family Plan help me to protect my minor child’s identity? Can a minor child access the Family Plan product? How long can I access/view my products? How secure is the information I provide to Equifax.com? How do I enable text alerts with my Equifax product? Why haven't I received a credit monitoring alert for my recent credit
