---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/debt-management/articles/-/learn/what-is-debt-consolidation/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:45.575482+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
the only option for debtholders looking for relief. Consider these alternatives: Debt management plans. Some non-profit credit counseling services offer debt management programs, where counselors work directly with the creditor to secure lower interest rates and monthly payments. This approach may help you avoid taking out a new loan, but there's a catch. You'll also lose the ability to open new credit accounts as long as the debt management plan is in place. Credit card refinancing. Credit card refinancing involves transferring your debt onto a new balance transfer credit card with an interest rate as low as 0%. This introductory rate is only temporary, however, and these kinds of cards are difficult to get without good credit scores. Bankruptcy. Filing for bankruptcy is a legal process for individuals and businesses that find themselves unable to pay their debts. During bankruptcy proceedings, a court examines the filer's financial situation, including their assets and liabilities. If the court finds that the filer has insufficient assets to cover what they owe, it may rule that the debts be discharged, meaning the borrower is no longer legally responsible to pay them back. While bankruptcy can be a good choice in some extreme situations, it's not an easy way out. Bankruptcy proceedings will have a severe impact on your credit scores and can remain on your credit reports for up to 10 years after you file. Bankruptcy should generally only be considered as a last resort. Juggling multiple debts can be overwhelming, but it's important not to let those bills pile up. With a few deep breaths and some careful consideration, finding a strategy for debt management that keeps your credit healthy is well within your reach. Get your free credit score today! We get it, credit scores are important. A monthly free credit score & Equifax credit report are available with Equifax Core CreditTM. No credit card required.
