---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/protection/identity-theft-and-credit-protection/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:53.521578+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 21:35:43 GMT
---
AÂ fraud alert informs creditors that you may be the victim of identity theft and instructs them to take additional steps to confirm your identity before processing applications for credit. This can help add an extra layer of protection if youâre concerned that someone may attempt to take out credit in your name. You have the right to place a fraud alert on your credit reports for free. - Consider a credit freeze. You also have the right toÂ place a security freezeÂ on your credit. A security freeze limits access to your credit report. It can help stop fraud by preventing potential creditors from accessing your credit file. A credit freeze can be less convenient than a fraud alert, because youâll need to unfreeze your credit when you want to apply for a credit card or loan. On the other hand, it may provide more protection than a fraud alert alone. - Identity theft can have deep and lasting financial impacts. Beyond unauthorized purchases and withdrawals from your accounts, victims could also suffer damage to their credit if identity thieves use their data to open new accounts. For example, an identity thief could open a new credit card in your name, rack up a balance and then disappear, harming your payment history. Beyond financial hardship, identity theft can also take an emotional toll. The discovery that youâve been a victim of identity theftâand the process that it takes to recoverâcan be a big strain. It may take several months to clean up the damage to your finances, further prolonging the stress. Identity theft insuranceÂ is a type of policy that provides coverage for qualified expenses and losses incurred as a result of identity theft. Depending on your coverage, you may be able to get reimbursed for stolen funds, legal fees, lost wages, notary fees and fees from financial institutions impacted by the fraud. Experianâs IdentityWorksÂ® Premium plan includes up to $1 million in identity theft coverage. You may also be able to enroll in identity theft insurance coverage as an add-on to your home or auto insurance policy. Identity theft protection can be a valuable way to stay alert to signs that your data is being abused by criminals. For instance, it can notify you to unauthorized activity on your credit report, or that your sensitive information has been exposed in a data breach. Whether or not identity theft protection is worth it for you may depend on your personal circumstances. While itâs possible to monitor your credit for indications of fraud on your own,Â identity theft protection featuresÂ offer added benefits, such as: Automated scans for of your personal accounts for signs of suspicious activity - Credit monitoring and alerts to new inquiries on your credit reports from the three major bureaus (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax) to help you respond quickly to signs of fraud - Dark web scans, which tell you if your information is being bought and sold by cybercriminals - Privacy scans, which automatically audit and remove your information from âpeople finderâ sites - Identity theft insurance with coverage up to $1 million to reimburse qualified expenses due to identity theft - Social Security number (SSN) trace alerts to notify you if your SSN appears on illegal websites - Altogether, these features can offer peace of mind against the ever-present threat of identity theft and financial fraud. Learn more about identity theft 20 Different Types of Identity Theft and Fraud 18 min â¢ Sep 11, 2024 Fraud And Identity TheftHow to Check for Identity Theft 5 min â¢ Jun 3, 2024 PreventionHow to Report Identity Theft 6 min â¢ Apr 10, 2024 Fraud And Identity TheftIs Identity Theft Protection Worth It? 5 min â¢ Oct 19, 2023 Prevention11 Ways to Protect Yourself From Identity Theft 6 min â¢ Mar 13, 2024 Prevention10 Warning Signs of
