---
source_url: https://www.usa.gov/features
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:17.327254+00:00
last_updated: Sat, 07 Feb 2026 01:13:51 GMT
---
USAGov feature articles Share these features to help your audience learn about government services and programs. Get help for homelessness, hunger, and more Whether you or a loved one is facing a housing or food crisis, itâs important to know there are potentially life-saving resources near you that can help. - How to change careers Are you considering a career change in 2024? Maybe you have new interests, need to increase your earning potential, or want a less-stressful work environment?Â If youâre ready to jump start, change, or advance your career path, let USAGov help you navigate the process. - How to get passports for the whole family Know the requirements and timeframe to get valid U.S. passports for the whole family. - Improving menâs health Did you know the life expectancy for U.S. men is nearly six years less than women? This is often due to higher instances of life-threatening conditions and not getting regular health checkups or preventative screenings. - Navigating health, benefits, and living as a seniorÂ As we age, tasks can become harder, while situations change more rapidly. Asking for help becomes more commonplace, but sometimes you donât know where to start. No matter which stage of independence youâre in as a senior, explore the government resources that are available to help add ease to this phase of life. - The 988 Lifeline and other mental health services Mental health challenges can affect anyone. Understand the options you have to face your mental health struggles and get the support you need. - Tips for budgeting to meet your financial goals In times of financial uncertainty, careful budgeting can be critical to keep your money in order. In this article, we offer practical tips for creating and maintaining a budget that suits your household's needs. - USAGov's guide to government benefits during any life event People navigate life, not government. Yet there are many life events that are associated with government benefits. - What programs and services are available for veterans? Members leave the military and return to civilian life every year. But life after the military can present many difficult and unique challenges. -
