---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-life-insurance-companies-8763666
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:17.041413+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Bellevue, Wash. Policy Types & Riders Available Policy Types Term lifeIndex universal lifeVariable universal lifeNo-medical-exam life (term) Available Riders Term conversionChild termWaiver of premiumAccidental death benefitTerminal illness Best for Financial Strength, Best for Customer Satisfaction : Thrivent Thrivent Financial Strength Rating: A++Complaints: Much better than expected for company size Get a Quote (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It Best for Financial Strength Thrivent’s A++ grade from credit rating agency AM Best is the highest possible, indicating what Best calls a “superior ability to meet ongoing insurance obligations.” Note that Thrivent is a member-owned organization for Christians. To sign up, you’ll need to sign a statement saying that you or your spouse is Christian. If you’re applying for a minor, you’ll need to assert that they’re being raised in the Christian faith. Best for Customer Satisfaction Thrivent’s record for customer complaints to state regulators is nearly pristine. State regulators received far fewer complaints than expected for a company of its size over a three-year period, giving Thrivent the best record of all the life insurers Investopedia researched. (MassMutual came in a close second). Pros & Cons Pros Highest available financial strength rating Best complaint score of any insurer Investopedia reviewed Offers a wide variety of policy types Cons Only available to applicants who declare themselves Christians No online applications Rider selection is lacking Overview Founded in 1902 and based in Minneapolis, Thrivent has the highest financial strength rating there is: A++. That means you can rest assured that the company will be able to pay its claims many years down the road. Thrivent’s wide range of life insurance products includes term, whole life, and universal. And if you’re like many of Thrivent’s other customers, you’ll find little to complain about once you get a policy. However, applying is less straightforward than with other competitors. There’s no online application, so you’ll have to pick up the phone and meet or speak with an agent to apply. And you’ll need to be a Christian to buy a policy—or at least attest that you are. We’re also not impressed with Thrivent’s limited set of riders, especially the lack of a child term rider. Policy Types & Riders Available Policy Types Term lifeWhole lifeChildren’s whole lifeUniversal lifeVariable universal lifeNo-medical-exam life (term) Available Riders Term conversionGuaranteed insurability riderWaiver of premiumTerminal illness Why Trust Us Investopedia product reviews are the result of rigorous, unbiased research and analysis by staff researchers and editors. We created this list of the best life insurance companies after collecting data points related to dozens of criteria from 45 companies. The criteria helped us evaluate each company’s costs, coverage options, financial stability, and other features and come up with objective assessments to help you choose the best provider for you. Investopedia has been a trustworthy source of financial information since 1999 and has been reviewing life insurance companies since 2020. How Does Life Insurance Work? A life insurance policy is a contract between a policyholder and an insurer. The policyholder agrees to pay ongoing premiums, and in exchange, the insurer pays out a guaranteed death benefit if the policyholder dies. With life insurance, policyholders designate who they want to receive the death benefit, known as the beneficiaries. The death benefit is typically received tax-free. The premiums—or the cost you pay for a life insurance policy—are influenced by many factors such as the type of insurance you purchase, your gender, age, health status, and medical history. Someone who is 30 years old with no pre-existing conditions will qualify for lower premiums compared to someone who’s in their 60s, smokes, and has diabetes. Life Insurance Benefits There are a variety of reasons why you might take out a life insurance policy. For example, some policyholders might want to leave behind a financial legacy, while others may want to provide their family with
