---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/score-basics/credit-utilization-rate/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:28.553232+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:22 GMT
---
in the U.S. was 29% in the third quarter (Q3) of 2024, according to Experian data. However, when you look at the average overall credit utilization broken down by credit score group, it's clear that lower is better. Below are average credit utilization ratios by FICOÂ® ScoreÎ. Score Range | Average Credit Card Utilization Ratio | ---|---| Poor (300 - 579) | 80.7% | ---|---| Fair (580 - 669) | 61.4% | ---|---| Good (670 - 739) | 38.6% | ---|---| Very good (740 - 799) | 15.2% | ---|---| Exceptional (800 - 850) | 7.1% | ---|---| Source: Experian data from Q3 2024 While there's no specific point when your utilization rate goes from good to bad, 30% is the point at which it starts to have a more pronounced negative effect on your credit score. As the data above illustrates, those with the highest scores tend to have credit utilization in the low single digits. Counterintuitively, however, a utilization rate of 0% is actually worse than 1%. That's because credit scoring models need some usage to go off of when calculating your score, and 0% utilization doesn't tell them much about your credit habits. A low utilization rate could indicate you're using your card and repaying your balances responsibly. How Does Credit Utilization Affect Your Credit Scores? Revolving credit utilization is an important scoring factor that could affect around 20% to 30% of your credit score depending on the scoring model. However, utilization rates can impact your credit scores in several ways. Overall and per-account utilization can affect credit scores. Your overall utilization rate and the utilization rate of the account with the highest utilization can affect your credit scores. - Only the most recently reported numbers affect most credit scores. Many credit scoring models don't look beyond the most recently reported balances and limits in your credit reports. As a result, you might be able to quickly improve those credit scores by lowering your utilization rate. - Newer scoring models consider trends in utilization rates. Unlike previous credit scoring models, the latest VantageScoreÂ® 4.0 and FICO 10 T models consider trended data. This can include your average utilization ratio and credit card balances over time. - The exact impact of a changing utilization rate depends on your current credit score, the type of credit score and what else is in your credit report. But, as mentioned above, a lower utilization rate is generally best for your credit scores. How to Lower Your Credit Utilization Rates You can lower your overall utilization rate and your individual account utilization rates by decreasing the balances and increasing the credit limits on the revolving accounts in your credit reports. One option is to use cash or debit cards instead of credit cards for most purchases. However, assuming you want to use credit cards to receive their protections, rewards and benefitsâas well as the credit benefits when used responsiblyâhere are a few additional ways to lower your credit utilization rates. Pay down credit card balances early. Credit card issuers generally report your account's balance to the credit bureaus at the end of each statement period. They send you the statement at the same time, and your bill is due several weeks later. Because of this timing, you may have a high utilization rate even if you pay your bill in full. But you may be able to lower the reported balance and resulting utilization rate by making credit card payments before the end of each statement period. - Ask your card issuers to raise your limits. You may want to request a higher credit limit if you've had the card for a while, made your payments on time and won't run up the balance. Additionally, consider making a request after your income increases, your credit score improves or you pay off other
