---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/score-basics/700-credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:26.651932+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:19 GMT
---
terms. If one or more is listed on your credit report, it can outweigh all other factors and severely lower your credit score. For example, a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years, and may shut you out of access to many types of credit for much or all of that time. How to build up your credit score Your FICOÂ® Score is solid, and you have reasonably good odds of qualifying for a wide variety of loans. But if you can improve your credit score and eventually reach the Very Good (740-799) or Exceptional (800-850) credit-score ranges, you may become eligible for better interest rates that can save you thousands of dollars in interest over the life of your loans. Here are few steps you can take to begin boosting your credit scores. Check your FICO ScoreFICOÂ® regularly. Tracking your FICOÂ® Score can provide good feedback as you work to build up your score. Recognize that occasional dips in score are par for the course, and watch for steady upward progress as you maintain good credit habits. To automate the process, you may want to consider a credit-monitoring service. You also may want to look into an identity theft-protection service that can flag suspicious activity on your credit reports. Avoid high credit utilization rates. High credit utilization, or debt usage. Try to keep your utilization across all your accounts below about 30% to avoid lowering your score. Consumers with a 700 FICOÂ® Score have an average of 4.7 credit card accounts. Seek a solid credit mix. No one should take on debt they donât need, but prudent borrowingâin the form of revolving credit and installment loansâcan promote good credit scores. Pay your bills on time. Youâve heard it before, but thereâs no better way to boost your credit score, so find a system that works for you and stick with it. Automated tools such as smartphone reminders and automatic bill-payment services work for many, sticky notes and paper calendars, for others. After six months or so, you may find yourself remembering without help. (Keep the system going anyway, just in case.) Learn more about your credit score A 700 FICOÂ® Score is Good, but by raising your score into the Very Good range, you could qualify for lower interest rates and better borrowing terms. A great way to get started is to get your free credit report from Experian and check your credit score to find out the specific factors that impact your score the most. Read more about score ranges and what a good credit score is.
