---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-fraud-alert/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:45.171574+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:16 GMT
---
What Is a Fraud Alert? Quick Answer A fraud alert is a security message that appears under your personal statements in your credit report. It informs potential creditors that your sensitive information may be compromised, and instructs them to take additional steps to verify your identity before they extend credit in your name. A fraud alert informs creditors that you might be the victim of identity theft and instructs them to verify your identity or contact you before extending credit in your name. You have the right to add a fraud alert to your credit reports for free. And once you add an alert to one of your credit reports with the three national credit bureaus (Experian, TransUnion or Equifax), that bureau must notify the other two bureaus, which will then add fraud alerts to their credit reports as well. What Does a Fraud Alert Do? A fraud alert can be added to your credit reports to help protect you from some types of credit fraud. The alert tells creditors that you have been or might be the victim of identity theft, or that you're an active-duty service member. If you apply for a new credit account, request an additional or replacement card for an existing account or request a credit limit increase, the creditor is instructed to take reasonable steps to verify your identity or contact you and confirm that you're actually the person who made the request. For example, if the creditor has your phone number, a representative may call you to verify your identity. The creditor may deny your application or request if it can't verify your identity or contact you, which can help protect you if someone else tries to get credit in your name. Types of Fraud Alerts There are three types of fraud alerts. Deciding which one to place on your credit report depends on your individual situation. Initial Fraud Alert | Extended Fraud Alert | Active-Duty Alert | ---|---|---| How long it lasts | 1 year | 7 years | 1 year | ---|---|---|---| Who can use it | Anyone | Victims of fraud or identity theft | Active-duty service members | ---|---|---|---| Instructs creditors to | Verify your identity | Contact you by phone or in person | Verify your identity | ---|---|---|---| Other impacts | Removed from prescreened credit and insurance offers for six months | Removed from prescreened credit and insurance offers for five years | Removed from prescreened credit and insurance offers for two years | ---|---|---|---| The eligibility requirements, creditor obligations, expiration dates and protective measures differ with the three types of alerts: Initial fraud alert: Initial fraud alerts expire after a year. Everyone has the right to add these to their credit reports, and they ask creditors to have a reasonable belief that they know the identity of the person making a request. - Extended fraud alert: These are available if you've been a victim of credit fraud or identity theft. You may need a police report or FTC identity theft report to add an extended fraud alert to your credit file, but it will last seven years. The extended fraud alert instructs creditors to contact you by phone or in person before issuing credit in your name. - Active-duty alert: Only available to active-duty service members, these alerts expire after a year and ask creditors to have a reasonable belief that they know the identity of the person making a request. - You can also renew initial, active-duty and extended fraud alerts up to three months before they expire. But for active-duty and extended fraud alerts, you may need to resubmit verification documents proving that you qualify for the alert. Even if you don't add a fraud alert to your credit report, you can opt out of receiving prescreened offers for credit and insurance on OptOutPrescreen.com.
