---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/consumer-tools/credit-reports-and-scores/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:51:51.816467+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Credit reports and scores Your credit reports and scores have an impact on your finances. Our resources can help you better understand them, learn how to correct errors, and improve your credit record over time. English - Español - Know the data on your credit report You know your credit report is important, but the information that credit reporting companies use to create that report is just as important—and you have a right to see that data. Use our list of credit reporting companies to request and review each of your reports. Get started Basics Learn how to get your credit reports You should check your credit reports at least once a year to make sure there are no errors that could keep you from getting credit or the best available terms on a loan. Read more Learn how to request a copy of your tenant screening report if you’ve been denied housing Once you request your credit reports, it’s important to know what kind of information you should be on the lookout for as you review them. Read more Learn about the difference between credit scores and credit reports Your credit reports and credit scores are both critical to your financial health, but they play very different roles. Read more Looking for ways to help others with money questions? Browse our database to see consumer complaints about credit reports - Watch our webinar to get credit basics in four short modules - Understand your situation Take action Submit a complaint Note: You should submit a dispute directly to both the credit reporting company that sent you the report and the company that provided the information. If you've already tried reaching out to the company and still have an issue, you can submit a complaint to the Bureau. Tell us about your issue—we'll forward it to the company and work to get you a response, generally within 15 days. Page last modified @
