---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-do-cash-back-credit-cards-work/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:11.090248+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:32 GMT
---
take out and at restaurants, and gas cards with bonus cash back at gas stations. Many cash back cards have several tiers, such as 2% cash back on dining and 3% on gas. There may also be a limit to the amount of bonus cash back you can earn each quarter or year. Generally, you can earn an unlimited 1% cash back on all non-bonus category purchases. A tiered rewards card can be best when you tend to spend most of your money at particular types of retailers. They're also helpful if you have several rewards cards and can remember to pick the card that offers the most rewards on each purchase. Rotating Rewards Cards A rotating cash back rewards card is a type of tiered rewards card that has changing bonus categories. Generally, the categories change every three months. These cards can be appealing because the limited-time bonus categories generally offer higher rates of cash back than other cash back card types. However, you can often earn bonus rewards only up to a certain amountâusually $1,500âin purchases each quarter. Also, you may not be able to choose the bonus categories. A rotating rewards card could be a good option if you don't mind keeping track of the changing categories and potentially having to activate them to earn the bonus rewards. But it might not be as rewarding as a flat-rate or tiered card if it's your only credit card. Earn rewards for your spending How to Redeem Your Cash Back Rewards You can redeem cash back rewards in several ways, including: Check - Statement credit - Direct deposit into your bank account - Gift cards - Some card issuers offer additional options, such as letting you use your cash back rewards to book travel, donate to charity or make purchases online. Cash back cards may have a minimum balance requirement, typically $25, for cashing in your rewards. What Credit Score Do You Need for a Cash Back Credit Card? Rewards cards generally require a good or excellent credit score. Cards with the most stringent credit score requirements may offer large intro bonuses, high cash back rewards rates and additional cardholder perks. There are options, however, for cardholders with bad credit, including secured cards that offer cash back rewards. But they may have lower rewards rates and fewer benefits. Learn more: How to Use a Credit Card to Build Credit Are Cash Back Credit Cards Worth It? Deciding whether a cash back credit card is worth it depends on your credit history, planned usage and current financial situation. Here's when a cash back credit card could make sense for you: You can qualify for a high-value card. If you have good or excellent credit, chances are higher that you'll be eligible for a cash back card with meaningful benefits. But if you're working on rebuilding credit, a poor-credit unsecured card or a secured credit card with cash back rewards, even if they're low, may also be valuable to you. Make sure the issuer reports payment history to all three credit bureaus (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax) to get the most from the card's credit-building features. - You'll make use of the card's rewards and redemption structure. Choose a card that aligns with your lifestyle: one that rewards you for dining if you often go to restaurants, or one that offers flat-rate cash back if you're not interested in keeping track of bonus categories. - You plan to pay off your balance in full each month. Cash back cards do, in essence, reward you for spending. But maintaining a large balance on your card, and carrying it over from month to month, will cost you money in interest and could hurt your credit. Plan to pay your balance in full so interest charges don't erode the rewards you earn, and so you
