---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/articles/markets/082615/5-biggest-canadian-insurance-companies.asp
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:08:14.331075+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
the U.S. Intact Financial earned C$29.7 billion ($21.38 billion U.S.) in TTM revenue as of Sept. 30, 2025. Intact Financial’s total assets as of the end of 2024 were C$59.53 billion ($42.86 billion U.S.). At the end of 2024, Intact Financial had 31,000 employees. How Big Is the Insurance Industry in Canada? Measured by market size, the property, casualty, and direct insurance industry was $56.3 billion in 2024. What Is the Largest Insurance Market in the World? The U.S. is the largest, with revenue from life and non-life insurance of $3.22 trillion. China, the U.K., and Japan are the next largest markets. Where Does Canada Rank Among the World's Insurers? Canada is the eighth-largest market in the world, as measured by life and non-life premium value. The Bottom Line Canada’s insurance industry has grown and diversified in recent years. Some companies have added wealth management, asset management, and personal and business financial products and services to their range of insurance offerings. The top five Canadian insurance companies as of Sept. 30, 2025, as measured by revenue, are Fairfax Financial Holdings, Manulife Financial, Great-West Lifeco, Sun Life Financial, and Intact Financial. Article Sources Investopedia requires writers to use primary sources to support their work. These include white papers, government data, original reporting, and interviews with industry experts. We also reference original research from other reputable publishers where appropriate. You can learn more about the standards we follow in producing accurate, unbiased content in our editorial policy. TradingView. “Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd.: Financials: Statements: Income Statement.” Fairfax Financial Holdings. “2024 Annual Report.” Page 42. Fairfax Financial Holdings. “About Fairfax Financial.” Manulife. “Our Story: Our Ambition.” TradingView. “Manulife Financial Corp.: Financials: Statements: Income Statement.” Manulife. “2024 Annual Report.” Page 152. Manulife. “2024 Annual Report.” Page 10. TradingView. “Great-West Lifeco Inc.: Financials: Statements: Income Statement.” Great-West Lifeco. “2024 Annual Report.” Page 54. Great-West Lifeco. “About Us.” TradingView. “Sun Life Financial Inc.: Financials: Statements: Income Statement.” Sun Life. “2024 Annual Report.“ “Sun Life at a Glance” page. Sun Life. “2024 Annual Report.“ Page 133. Intact Financial. “About Us.” Intact Financial. “Brands and Products.” TradingView. “Intact Financial Corp.: Financials: Statements: Income Statement.” Intact Financial. “2024 Annual Report.” Page 44. Intact Financial. “2024 Annual Report.” Page 4. IBISWorld. “Property, Casualty and Direct Insurance in Canada—Market Size 2005–2031.” beinsure. “Top Ranking the World’s Largest Insurance Markets.” Statista. “Insurance Industry in Canada—Statistics & Facts.” Compare Accounts Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Read more Personal Finance Insurance Business Insurance Corporate Insurance Partner Links
