---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/best-crypto-exchanges-5071855
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:08:08.957576+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
exchange is Investopedia’s choice for low fees. Investors who value low cost but need access to high-quality amenities and resources won’t find a better exchange that consistently offers both. With a minimum deposit of just $10, Prospective clients can set up an account and start trading their favorite cryptocurrency. Pros & Cons Pros Low fees for beginning and advanced cryptocurrency traders A good selection of educational resources and research amenities Access to web, desktop, mobile, and Kraken Pro platform Cons Kraken is not available in all 50 U.S. states Does not offer FDIC or SIPC insurance or other crime insurance. Does not allow options trading for cryptocurrency Overview Kraken was founded in 2011. While the company has gone fully remote, its headquarters are in San Francisco, CA. Aside from its digital presence, Kraken operates in over 190 countries, services over 13 million clients, and has established itself as one of the premier cryptocurrency exchanges offering low-fee service. Kraken offers two platforms: a basic and a pro version. Clients utilizing the basic version can expect to pay the following fees: a fixed 1% trading fee, payment fees, and a spread. Clients can also sign up for Kraken+ for a monthly cost of $4.99 and reap $0 trading fees up to $10,000.Regarding Kraken Pro, clients will pay maker fees between 0.00%-0.20% and taker fees between 0.05%-0.35%. The actual amount will depend on the users' 30-day trading volume. Other fees, such as deposit and address setup fees, come at no extra cost. In addition to its low-fee structure, Kraken offers a unique service that caters to clients of varying skill levels. For instance, Kraken’s regular platform enables beginning and low-volume traders to start trading and storing their cryptocurrency with a $10 minimum deposit, access to over 620 cryptocurrency assets, an excellent selection of educational and news content, and the ability to create and utilize Kraken's exclusive wallet. Advanced traders who need more sophisticated features should consider Kraken Pro. This platform is designed for traders who need access to advanced order types, charting, and screening capabilities not offered on the original platform. The Kraken Pro's best feature is that it’s free to use. However, Kraken comes with potential drawbacks. While Kraken operates in many countries, the exchange is not available in all 50 U.S. states, such as New York and Maine. Furthermore, in many other states, additional restrictions apply to activities such as staking, payment services, funding, and custody. Prospective clients interested in a specific service should check if it is legal in their respective state. It’s also important to note that Kraken does not offer any insurance for its users. Read the full Kraken review Best For Security, Best for Experienced Traders : Gemini Gemini Minimum deposit: $0.00Maker fees: -0.01% to 0.20% for ActiveTraderTaker fees: 0.03% to 0.40% for ActiveTrader Available cryptocurrencies: 90+ Open Account (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It Best For Security Gemini is our top choice for security. The crypto exchange has sound security standards, a commitment to compliance, and third-party audits that ensure its security infrastructure operates at a high level. It’s also one of the few crypto exchanges to offer FDIC and crypto insurance to help further safeguard traders’ accounts. Best for Experienced Traders In addition to being our choice for security, Gemini is also our top choice for experienced traders due to its ActiveTrader software. The platform offers experienced users the ability to conduct advanced charting techniques, use advanced order types, and trade futures and perpetual contracts. Pros & Cons Pros Highly secure and compliant platform Available in all 50 U.S. states Pass-through FDIC insurance for uninvested cash and crypto insurance Cons Offers a low number of cryptocurrencies Customer support only has a request form Complex fee structure Overview Gemini was founded in 2014 and is currently headquartered in New York, N.Y. Due to
