---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/debt-management/articles/-/learn/wage-garnishment/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:15.615071+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
with your creditor for a repayment plan. Creditors and debt collection agencies are often willing to work out repayment agreements to avoid further legal expense and hassle. At the same time, seek legal help, preferably from an attorney who specializes in consumer protection or debt collection law. Depending on the type of debt you owe, the legal window to challenge wage garnishment can be small. If negotiation with your creditor fails, you’ll need to act fast. Legal proceedings vary by state and type of debt, but you may be able to file an exemption claim with the court. For example, in most states, a head of household may qualify for an exemption. Similarly, if you believe your wages are being garnished improperly, you can file a motion to vacate the judgment. Whether the debt is private or public, you may have to go to court to present your case or to respond to an exemption challenge from your creditor. The regulations surrounding garnishment can be complicated and vary widely by state, so it’s best to seek expert legal guidance as soon as you can. The long-term impact of wage garnishment If you’re unable to challenge the court order, wage garnishment can affect your finances far into the future. Garnishment is primarily a reduction of income, which can be burdensome for those already struggling to make ends meet. The garnishment doesn’t just hurt your budget, but it can also drag down your credit scores. Although wage garnishments don’t appear directly on your credit reports, that doesn’t mean they’re invisible to lenders. Creditors still report delinquent debt to the three nationwide consumer reporting agencies—Equifax®, TransUnion® and Experian®—and they are free to add information about how the debt is being collected, including garnishment. Many common credit scoring formulas, payment history accounts for the largest portion of your credit scores. Therefore, a series of missed payments culminating in wage garnishment can send your scores plummeting. Missed payments and other negative information remain on your credit reports for seven years, impacting your ability to qualify for more credit when you need it. If you suspect you might miss a credit card, loan or other type of payment, contact your creditor immediately and try to work out a repayment plan. Financial counseling may also help. And if you can’t avoid delinquency and face a lawsuit, seek legal support from a qualified lawyer. Get your free credit score today! We get it, credit scores are important. A monthly free credit score & Equifax credit report are available with Equifax Core CreditTM. No credit card required.
