---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/credit-cards/best-rewards/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:34.113735+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 16:22:33 GMT
---
(cash back) ---|---| Annual Fee: $39 ---|---| Credit One BankÂ® Premier American ExpressÂ® Unlimited Rewards Card Ongoing APR: 29.74% Variable ---|---| Rewards: 1% (cash back) ---|---| Annual Fee: $0 ---|---| First Progress Select Secured MastercardÂ®Â Cash Back Rewards Ongoing APR: 17.49% Variable ---|---| Rewards: 1% - 10% (cash back) ---|---| Annual Fee: $39 ---|---| Credit One Bank American ExpressÂ® Card for Rebuilding Credit Ongoing APR: 29.74% Variable ---|---| Rewards: 1% (cash back) ---|---| Annual Fee: $75 First year. $99 thereafter, billed monthly at $8.25 ---|---| AvantÂ® Cashback Rewards MastercardÂ® Ongoing APR: 35.99%* ---|---| Rewards: 1% (cash back) ---|---| Annual Fee: Introductory fee of $75 for the first year. After that, $99 annually.* ---|---| Delta SkyMilesÂ® Reserve American Express Card Intro bonus: Earn 100,000 Bonus Miles after you spend $6,000 in purchases with your new Card, and an additional 25,000 bonus miles after you make an additional $3,000 in purchases on the Card, both within your first 6 months. Ends 04/01/2026. ---|---| Ongoing APR: 19.49%-28.49% Variable ---|---| Rewards: 1x - 3x (Miles per dollar) ---|---| Annual Fee: $650 ---|---| Credit One BankÂ® WanderÂ® American ExpressÂ® with Dining, Gas & Travel Rewards Ongoing APR: 29.74% Variable ---|---| Rewards: 1% - 10% (cash back) ---|---| Annual Fee: $95 ---|---| How to find the best rewards credit card Figure out which rewards work for you Decide if you want to earn cash back, points or miles and find the card the fits your spending habits. Look for intro bonuses Many rewards credit cards offer an intro bonus when youâre approved. Be aware of annual fees Consider annual fees and figure out if the rewards you receive would outweigh the cost of the annual fee. Pay zero interest A 0% intro APR could help you pay off debt with a balance transfer or make a large purchase without paying interest. Start with your FICOÂ® ScoreÎÂ and see card offers matched to your credit profile. Get started for free
