---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
has made the disclosure to the consumer for that loan transaction. (F) No Obligation for Content (i) In general . The obligation of any person pursuant to this subsection shall be limited solely to providing a copy § 610 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681h 57 of the information that was received from the consumer reporting agency. (ii) Limit on liability . No person has liability under this subsection for the content of that information or for the omission of any information within the report provided by the consumer reporting agency. (G) Person defined as excluding enterprise. As used in this subsection, the term “person” does not include an enterprise (as defined in paragraph (6) of section 1303 of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992). (2) Prohibition on Disclosure Clauses Null and Void (A) In general. Any provision in a contract that prohibits the disclo - sure of a credit score by a person who makes or arranges loans or a consumer reporting agency is void. (B) No liability for disclosure under this subsection . A lender shall not have liability under any contractual provision for disclosure of a credit score pursuant to this subsection. § 610. Conditions and form of disclosure to consumers [15 U.S.C. § 1681h] (a) In General (1) Proper identification . A consumer reporting agency shall require, as a condition of making the disclosures required under section 609 [§ 1681g], that the consumer furnish proper identification. (2) Disclosure in writing. Except as provided in subsection (b), the disclosures required to be made under section 609 [§ 1681g] shall be provided under that section in writing. (b) Other Forms of Disclosure (1) In general. If authorized by a consumer, a consumer reporting agency may make the disclosures required under 609 [§ 1681g] (A) other than in writing; and (B) in such form as may be (i) specified by the consumer in accordance with paragraph (2); and (ii) available from the agency. (2) Form. A consumer may specify pursuant to paragraph (1) that disclosures under section 609 [§ 1681g] shall be made 58§ 611 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681i (A) in person, upon the appearance of the consumer at the place of business of the consumer reporting agency where disclosures are regularly provided, during normal business hours, and on reasonable notice; (B) by telephone, if the consumer has made a written request for disclosure by telephone; (C) by electronic means, if available from the agency; or (D) by any other reasonable means that is available from the agency. (c) Trained personnel . Any consumer reporting agency shall provide trained personnel to explain to the consumer any information furnished to him pursuant to section 609 [§ 1681g] of this title. (d) Persons accompanying consumer . The consumer shall be permitted to be accompanied by one other person of his choosing, who shall furnish rea - sonable identification. A consumer reporting agency may require the con - sumer to furnish a written statement granting permission to the consumer reporting agency to discuss the consumer’s file in such person’s presence. (e) Limitation of liability . Except as provided in sections 616 and 617 [§§ 1681n and 1681o] of this title, no consumer may bring any action or proceeding in the nature of defamation, invasion of privacy, or negligence with respect to the reporting of information against any consumer reporting agency, any user of information, or any person who furnishes information to a consumer reporting agency, based on information disclosed pursuant to section 609, 610, or 615 [§§ 1681g, 1681h, or 1681m] of this title or based on information disclosed by a user of a consumer report to or for a consumer against whom the user has taken adverse action, based in whole or in part on the report, except as to false information furnished with malice or
