---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/best-online-brokers-4587872
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:08:17.761941+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
content and research tools, expansive ETF offering, and fractional ETF trading. Fidelity is a repeat winner in this category, having earned the top spot from Charles Schwab in 2023. Best for Low Costs Fidelity has long been an industry leader when it comes to lowering fees, and its transparent and compelling fee schedule is the reason why—for the fourth year running—it wins for low costs. Best for Cash Management Finding the best brokerage account for cash management is not just about earning the highest interest rate possible. It’s also about seamless integration with essential, no-fee banking features and insurance. In these areas, Fidelity’s cash management offering is unmatched, and it comes with solid passive earnings power on uninvested cash, along with reimbursable access to a global network of ATMs. Pros & Cons Pros No payment for order flow (PFOF) makes for excellent order execution Strong portfolio analysis and account features Superior trading platforms for all types of investors Top-tier educational content, screening tools, and research capabilities FDIC insurance up to $5 million on uninvested cash Cons Only three digital coins available for trading Minimum balance required for some index trading Multiple platforms may be required to access all tools Overview In an industry full of innovative companies competing for the attention of an incredibly diverse universe of traders and investors, Fidelity delivers the most well-rounded product offering to suit the needs of nearly every investor. Headquartered in Boston, Fidelity’s storied history began in 1946. As of Oct. 20, 2025, the company holds $6.4 trillion in discretionary assets and is ranked among the top brokerage firms in terms of assets under management. Investopedia began evaluating online brokerages in 2019, and Fidelity has shown a commitment to improving its financial products and services ever since. Improvements in financial advisor support, bond liquidity analysis, and the new Fidelity Youth app were the highlights of our 2024 product demonstration with the company. But the enhancements didn't stop there: Fidelity also revamped its process for opening core brokerage accounts, further streamlining the online experience for new users. The accounts now also have a comprehensive cash management product that is jam-packed with banking features. Fidelity has long been an industry leader in lowering fees, but it is also widely-regarded for its vast customer service network, which includes 217 customer centers, and provides excellent client support for its low-cost, high-value offering. Investors looking for an online broker that keeps trading costs low, all while delivering some of the most powerful tools in the industry and resisting the common industry practice of collecting PFOF, will be hard-pressed to find a better broker than Fidelity. New & Notable On Sept. 25, 2025, Fidelity announced the launch of Fidelity Trader+™, a sophisticated trading platform integrated into the Fidelity ecosystem at no additional cost for its traders. Fidelity Trader+ is designed to provide real-time market insights, dynamic visual analytics, powerful trading tools, analyst ratings, and custom alerts that are interconnected across its web, desktop, and mobile platforms. The new experience will also feature a fully rebuilt downloadable desktop platform, access to Fidelity Crypto® on its mobile and web platforms, with desktop integration slated for 2026. Editor's Note In addition to our review of Fidelity's online brokerage platform, we've also reviewed the company's robo-advisor service, Fidelity Go. Charles Schwab: Best for Beginners 4.7 Open an Account Account Minimum: $0 Fees: $0 for stock/ETF trades, $0.65 per contract for options Read full review Open an Account Why We Chose It Even before TD Ameritrade’s educational content was incorporated into its ecosystem, Charles Schwab—which acquired TD Ameritrade in 2020—was known as one of the best platforms for new traders and investors. With the integration now complete, Schwab has taken over the top ranks in this category, a position TD Ameritrade used to dominate. Schwab now houses the most comprehensive library of evergreen learning materials,
