---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/loans/articles/-/learn/co-signer-pros-and-cons/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:02.632960+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
stay on top of their payments and to form a plan in case they fall behind on their financial obligations. Pros of co-signing a loan Generally speaking, it's the primary borrower who benefits most when you co-sign a loan. However, it's also an opportunity to have a positive impact for a borrower in a tight financial spot. For example, co-signing a personal loan allows you to help a young friend or family member build a credit history, thus preparing them to qualify for even more new credit later. Similarly, if someone in your family has an impaired credit history or low credit scores, co-signing a loan may help them secure a bigger principal or less expensive loan terms. In this way, co-signers can take satisfaction in helping someone achieve their financial goals. Cons of co-signing loans As a co-signer, you'll experience just as much — if not more — financial risk as the primary borrower. Here are the ways co-signing may impact your finances. It can increase your debt-to-income ratio. Co-signing a loan may increase your debt-to-income ratio, which refers to the total amount of debt payments you owe every month divided by your gross monthly income. Lenders look at your debt-to-income ratio when considering you for a new credit account. If you already have a high amount of debt, adding a co-signed loan could impact your own ability to qualify for additional credit. - It can affect your credit scores. Because a co-signed loan is recorded on your credit reports, any late or missed payments can have a negative impact on your credit scores. If the borrower defaults on the loan and ceases payment, the debt may be referred to a collection agency. This negative credit information can appear on your credit report for up to seven years and bring down your credit scores. - It can leave you responsible for unpaid debt. If the primary borrower can't make a payment, you're responsible for the full amount of their debt. If the loan goes to collections, a debt collector may come after you to retrieve what's owed. - It can damage your relationship with the primary borrower. Co-signing has the potential to put stress on your relationship with the primary borrower, who is oftentimes a friend or family member. Your finances are tied to theirs for the length of the loan, even if your personal relationship changes. - Helping a friend or family member secure a loan or lease can be rewarding. However, it's equally important to understand the financial risks before agreeing to co-sign an agreement for a loved one. Get our credit monitoring & ID theft protection product for the Family today! For $29.95 per month, you can feel more confident with Equifax CompleteTM Family Plan knowing that your family's credit is being monitored. Sign up today!
