---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/improving-credit/building-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:15.887870+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
10%. Your credit mix indicates how diverse your credit accounts are, showing whether you can effectively manage both installment and revolving credit. This factor likely won't make or break a credit application, but having different types of credit under your belt can help take a good credit score to the next level. - New credit: 10%. Each time you apply for credit, the lender will typically run a hard inquiry on one or more of your credit reports. Additionally, opening new credit accounts will result in new tradelines on your credit reports. While taking on new credit may be necessary at times, it's important to avoid applying too frequently to avoid overextending yourself. - What Is a Good Credit Score? Lenders use different criteria to evaluate creditworthiness. In general, though, a good credit score is one that's 700 or above. Here's a quick breakdown of the credit score ranges, according to FICO: Why Do You Want Good Credit? Having good credit is crucial if you plan on applying for a loan or credit card because it can make it easier to qualify for lower interest rates and fees, as well as better credit card rewards and benefits. It can also make it easier to qualify for low insurance rates, get into an apartment and even obtain certain jobs. How Long Does It Take to Build Credit? There's no set timeline for building your credit history, primarily because every credit profile is unique. If you're just starting out, it'll take at least six months to establish a FICO® Score. Beyond that, it can take several years to build and maintain an excellent credit history. If you have poor credit due to some past missteps, it could take even longer. Negative items can remain on your credit reports for seven or even 10 years in the case of Chapter 7 bankruptcy. While the impact of negative items diminishes over time, it can still take more effort than if you were building credit from scratch. Frequently Asked Questions Monitor Your Credit to Track Your Progress Regardless of whether you're building your credit from scratch or rebuilding a struggling score, regularly monitoring your credit is critical to make sure your efforts are paying off. To keep your eye on your credit reports and scores, consider using Experian's free credit monitoring tool so you can regularly log in to check on your progress. You can also get a copy of your credit report and credit score for free from Experian. Instantly raise your FICO® Score for free Use Experian Boost® to get credit for the bills you already pay like utilities, mobile phone, video streaming services and now rent. No credit card required About the author Ben Luthi has worked in financial planning, banking and auto finance, and writes about all aspects of money. His work has appeared in Time, Success, USA Today, Credit Karma, NerdWallet, Wirecutter and more. Read more from Ben
