---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/why-would-you-want-a-good-credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:51.502751+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:35 GMT
---
with the most generous mileage, accommodation, points or cash back rewards are typically only available to borrowers with high credit scores. What's more, many are only marketed directly to candidates who qualify for them. Note that a good score may not guarantee approval for these offersâcard issuers, like other lenders, typically consider your income and other debts as well as scores when making credit offersâbut approval odds are in your favor if you're targeted with a card offer. 4. Insurance Discounts Car insurance companies in many states use specialized credit-based insurance scores to help decide whom they'll cover and what premium they'll charge a given policyholder. Insurance scores are not the same as those lenders use for credit applications, but are similarly derived from information in your credit reports. These scores are just one of many factors that go into determining your insurance ratesâyour driving history and ZIP code are major factors as wellâbut good credit can help you save money on car insurance. You can't be turned down for insurance if you have a low credit score, but having a high score can help you qualify lower premiums. 5. More Housing Options Many landlords and property management companies check potential tenants' credit scores to gauge their level of financial responsibility. A low score could prevent your application from being approved or cause you to be charged a higher security deposit on a rental house or apartment. 6. Security Deposit Waivers on Utilities Utilities including internet providers, cable companies and satellite dish companies may review your credit reports and scores in order to assess their risk in taking you on as a customer. If you lack a strong credit history, they may require a significant security deposit before starting service or lending you equipment such as routers, dishes or cable boxes. What Is a Good Credit Score? While there are countless credit scoring models on the market, 90% of top lenders use FICOÂ® Scores, which assign scores in a range of 300 to 850. FICOÂ® Scores are categorized into the following credit scoring bands: Exceptional: 800 and above - Very good: 740 to 799 - Good: 670 to 739 - Fair: 580 to 669 - Poor: 579 and below - Most lenders consider a FICOÂ® Score of 700 or above to be a good credit score. How to Improve Your Credit Score To improve your credit, you'll need to demonstrate that you can manage your credit responsibly. You can do this by making every payment on time, keeping card balances low and taking other steps to improve your credit health. Don't Miss Payments Your payment history is the most important factor in determining your credit scores. A long history of on-time payments can help you achieve excellent credit scores, and just one payment made 30 days late can do significant harm to your scores. Many credit card issuers and other lenders enable automatic payments for the minimum amount due each month, and using these tools can help you avoid missing payments (as long as you're careful not to overdraw your bank account). Pay Down Revolving Account Balances High balances on credit cards and other revolving credit accounts elevate your credit utilization rate and can hurt your credit scores. Individuals with the highest credit scores tend to keep their credit utilization ratio in the low single digits. Catch Up on Past-Due Accounts If you're behind on any bills, bringing them current can help your credit scores. A late payment can remain on your credit report for up to seven years, but just because you've already missed a payment doesn't mean you should give up. Bringing your past-due accounts current stops additional score-damaging late payments from appearing in your credit history and prevents costly late fees. Limit New Credit Applications You can't build a credit history without a record of borrowing and
