---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/mortgage-rates-5094943
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:58.666237+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Rocket Mortgage Best Overall, Best for Customer Experience, Best for First-Time Homebuyers Bank of America Best Big Bank Lender American Pacific Mortgage Best for Bad Credit PenFed Credit Union Best Credit Union Mortgage Lender Veterans United Home Loans Best for Veterans Rate Best for Fast Closing, Range of Loans How to Use Our Mortgage Rate Tables Our mortgage rate tables can help you see at a glance whether the rate that a particular lender is prepared to offer you on a new mortgage or refinancing is higher, lower, or in the same ballpark as other lenders. If it's higher, you might want to do some additional shopping around. Note that these rates are for borrowers with what lenders consider good credit. If your credit isn't up to par, you may have to pay more or you may have trouble getting a mortgage at all. An alternative, if you aren't in a big hurry, would be to delay applying for a few months and see if you can raise your credit score in the meantime. 30-Year Mortgage Rates Loan Type Purchase Refinance 30-Year Fixed 6.29% 6.43% FHA 30-Year Fixed 6.60% 6.60% VA 30-Year Fixed 5.81% 5.78% Jumbo 30-Year Fixed 6.25% 6.25% What Is a 30-Year Mortgage? While homebuyers have many alternatives today, 30-year fixed-rate mortgages remain the most popular choice by far. Because they are fixed, your monthly payment never changes. Many borrowers opt for 30-year mortgages because their monthly payments are lower than for loan products with shorter terms, such as 15-year or 20-year mortgages. The downside is that you'll end up paying more interest in total over the life of the loan. Who Should Consider a 30-Year Mortgage? Because the monthly payments are more affordable than on loans with shorter terms, 30-year mortgages are a good choice for first-time homebuyers or anyone else whose budget is stretched to the limit. Bear in mind that you might not keep the mortgage for the full 30 years. For example, you may sell the home in the intervening years. Or, if interest rates fall, you might decide to refinance, either into a new 30-year mortgage or one with a shorter term. In the News Every Thursday, Freddie Mac, a government-sponsored buyer of mortgage loans, publishes a weekly average of 30-year mortgage rates. The most recent reading was 6.84%. Last September, the average sank as far as 6.08%. But in October 2023, Freddie Mac's average saw a historic rise, surging to a 23-year peak of 7.79%.Freddie Mac’s average differs from what we report for 30-year rates because Freddie Mac calculates a weekly average that blends five previous days of rates. In contrast, our Investopedia 30-year average is a daily reading, offering a more precise and timely indicator of rate movement. In addition, the criteria for included loans (e.g., amount of down payment, credit score, inclusion of discount points) varies between Freddie Mac's average and our own. 20-Year Mortgage Rates Loan Type Purchase Refinance 20-Year Fixed 6.20% 6.38% A 20-year fixed-rate mortgages works much like a 30-year mortgage. The difference is that it will be paid off 10 years earlier. The downside of 20-year mortgages is that they have higher monthly payments. On the upside, you'll own your home sooner and you will have paid less in interest over the life of the loan. Who Should Consider a 20-Year Mortgage? If you can afford the larger monthly payments, a 20-year mortgage would be worth looking into. While your payments will be higher, your lender may offer you a lower interest rate than it would on a 30-year mortgage. As mentioned, you'll also pay less interest over the 20-year life of the loan although you'll pay more interest with each monthly payment. At the same time, you'll be building equity more quickly, which might be useful if you later decide to apply for a home
