---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/preventing-fraud/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:09.649953+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
by contacting Experian by mail or phone. To place a fraud alert through the mail, write to: Experian P.O. Box 9554 Allen, TX 75013 - To place a fraud alert over the phone, call Experian's toll-free phone number: - How to Freeze Your Credit Placing a security freeze differs somewhat at each of the three national credit bureaus, but all three bureaus enable you to apply and remove freezes online, by phone or by mail. Note that unlike a fraud alert, you must place and remove a credit freeze with each credit bureau individually. Experian | TransUnion | Equifax | ---|---|---| Experian Security Freeze | TransUnion | Online Equifax Information Services LLC | When setting up a security freeze, be prepared to provide the following information to verify your identity: Your full name - Date of birth - Addresses you've used in the past two years - Social Security number - A copy of a government-issued ID, such as a driver's license, passport or state identity card. - The Bottom Line Vigilance is the key to minimizing risk of credit fraud. Be skeptical of unsolicited communications purporting to be from government agencies or financial institutions, especially if they ask or pressure you to disclose personal information. Experian offers a wealth of advice to help you recognize and avoid frauds and scams, and also offers many resources in case you become an unfortunate victim. Monitor your credit for free Credit monitoring can help you detect possible identity fraud, and can prevent surprises when you apply for credit. Get daily notifications when changes are detected. Get free monitoringAbout the author Jim Akin is freelance writer based in Connecticut. With experience as both a journalist and a marketing professional, his most recent focus has been in the area of consumer finance and credit scoring. Read more from Jim
