---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/cybersecurity/articles/-/learn/teaching-kids-internet-safety/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:32.713422+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
online acquaintances. As your children get ready to enter middle school or junior high, they’re feeling more in control when it comes to technology and may assume they know how to protect themselves online; however, they still need some guidance and supervision. A few practices to consider implementing: Make your children’s bedrooms a tech-free zone at night. - Explore privacy settings on apps and websites with them and begin a discussion around managing who sees what they post. - Talk about healthy relationships and recognizing signs when someone may be seeking to exploit or abuse them. - Create a “piggy bank” for their online account passwords. Make sure they understand you will access them only if you have serious concerns. - Address respecting others online and not using social networks to demean, spread gossip, or bully. Also, you can teach them what to do if they witness bullying behavior (report content, talk to an adult). - In brief Start by having a simple conversation with your children around the good and bad parts of the Internet. Even if something does happen, stay calm and keep the dialogue going. They need to feel like you’re a safe place to turn to if they ever feel uncomfortable or attacked. If they learn the basics of online safety early, they may be more likely to surf the Internet safely when they’re older. Get our credit monitoring & ID theft protection product for the Family today! For $29.95 per month, you can feel more confident with Equifax CompleteTM Family Plan knowing that your family's credit is being monitored. Sign up today!
