---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-earn-extra-money-on-your-savings/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:51.547442+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:42 GMT
---
7 Ways to Earn More Money on Your Savings Quick Answer Traditional savings accounts donât typically provide a very high interest rate on their own. Alternatives that can help you earn more on your savings include high-yield savings accounts, CDs and money market accounts. Just because your money is sitting in savings doesn't mean it can't work for you. There are several ways to earn more money on your savings, such as earning higher interest rates, avoiding account fees and cashing in bonuses. If you aren't earning extra money on your savings, you may be missing out on easy cash. Here are seven ways to get started. 1. Open a High-Yield Savings Account High-yield savings accounts work like traditional savings accounts, but they come with drastically higher interest rates. For example, in May 2025, the average savings account earned 0.42% annual percentage yield (APY), according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC). Meanwhile, the best high-yield savings accounts earned upwards of 4.00% APY. High-yield savings accounts are common at online banks. Without the costs of maintaining physical branches, online banks can pay higher interest rates and may eliminate certain fees for savings customers. Whether you're building an emergency fund, saving for your wedding or preparing to buy a house, a high-yield savings account can help you reach your savings goals faster. Tip: High-yield savings account rates are variable and typically change in response to the federal funds rate. So if the Fed rate drops, your savings rate will likely decrease too. Earn Money Faster Compare high-yield savings accounts Find a high-yield savings account with todayâs APY. Compare current APY and offers to find the best savings account for you. 2. Use a No-Fee or High-Yield Checking Account Checking accounts aren't the best for saving cash, but the right account can give your savings a leg up. Look for a no-fee checking account, which doesn't have any monthly fees. No-fee checking accounts may also be free of other common charges and restrictions, such as ATM fees, overdraft fees and minimum balance requirements. Even better, some checking accounts pay competitive interest on your balance. Generally, these high-yield checking accounts have certain criteria you must meet to earn interest on your checking account balance. For example, you may need to set up direct deposit or maintain a certain minimum balance. Tip: Just because an account is labeled a "no-fee" or "free" checking account doesn't mean it's completely fee-free. For example, you may still have to pay overdraft fees if your balance dips below zero. 3. Earn a Bank Bonus If you're in the market for a new bank account, a bank account bonus can be an extra perk. Similar to credit card intro bonuses, banks and credit unions may offer account opening bonuses to attract new customers. The account bonuses vary widely and can be anywhere from below $100 to $1,000 or more. Usually, you need to meet certain requirements to earn a bank account bonus. For example, you may need to open a new account and: Enroll in direct deposit - Make a certain number of transactions within a specified timeframe - Maintain a specific minimum account balance - If you meet the eligibility requirements, your bank will typically deposit the bonus directly into your account. Tip: Don't open a bank account just for the bonus. Some banks charge a variety of account fees, which you may or may not be able to waive. Read the fine print, understand the bonus offer and make sure the account is a good fit before opening a new account. 4. Compare Interest Rates Interest rates vary widely across savings accounts. For example, several of the largest national banks offer savings accounts that earn just 0.01% APY. Meanwhile, the best high-yield savings accounts are earning more than 4.00% APY. Over time, this difference in APY has
