---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-the-difference-between-a-credit-freeze-and-fraud-alert/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:23.077185+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:28 GMT
---
Fraud Alert vs. Credit Freeze: Whatâs the Difference? Quick Answer A fraud alert requires a creditor to verify your identity when you apply for new credit, while a credit freeze limits access to your credit reports. In the world of credit, you've probably heard the terms "fraud alert" and "credit freeze." You have the right to add either one to your credit report, but what's the difference between the two? Fraud alerts and credit freezes are both ways to protect yourself from fraud, but they work differently. A fraud alert on your credit reports asks creditors to take steps to verify your identity before processing credit applications, while a credit freeze limits access to your credit report to help you avoid identity theft and fraud. Let's take an in-depth look at the differences and similarities between fraud alerts and credit freezes. What Is a Fraud Alert? A fraud alert asks creditors who view your credit report to verify your identification before approving credit in your name in case someone is using your information without your permission. Placing a fraud alert at one of the three major credit bureaus (Experian, TransUnion or Equifax) will automatically add the alert to your credit reports at the two other bureaus. You can request one of these three types of fraud alerts: Initial fraud alert: This type of alert expires after one year unless you renew it. You can add this alert whenever you want, for any reason, such as simply wanting extra protection from fraudsters. - Active-duty alert: Active-duty service members can set up this type of alert when they're deployed. An active-duty alert lasts one year, and it can be renewed as long as needed during deployment. - Extended fraud alert: An extended fraud alert lasts seven years. It's meant to protect victims of credit fraud or identity theft. If you've reported an incident of credit fraud or identity theft to authorities, you can obtain an extended fraud alert by submitting a copy of the report you filed with a law enforcement agency. - All fraud alerts can be renewed up to three months before they expire. How to Set Up a Fraud Alert To place a free fraud alert, visit the Experian Fraud Alert Center, choose the kind of alert you want and follow any instructions for uploading or mailing in copies of your ID, proof of address and any other required documentation. As part of your fraud alert request, you will be required to provide appropriate proof of your identity. When to Lift a Fraud Alert Unlike a credit freeze, a fraud alert shouldn't present a barrier to you securing new credit, so it's unlikely you'll need to lift it before it expires. If you do decide to remove a fraud alert, however, you should do so only if you're certain that you're out of immediate danger of fraud or identity theft. To lift a fraud alert, you'll need to contact each credit bureau individually. You also can let it expire on its ownâafter one year for an initial fraud alert or active-duty alert, and after seven years for an extended fraud alertâif you feel the danger of becoming a victim of fraud or identity theft has passed. What Is a Credit Freeze? A credit freeze, also called a security freeze, restricts creditors from accessing your credit report in order to open new credit accounts in your name. A credit freeze is designed to protect consumers from fraud. While a credit freeze limits access to your credit report, it doesn't keep all people and organizations from looking at it. Aside from you viewing your own report during a freeze, others that can view it include: Current lenders and card issuers that conduct credit checks to manage accounts - Landlords and rental agencies that are reviewing your application to become a tenant
