---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/preventing-fraud/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:09.649953+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
local authorities, they may refer you to appropriate state and federal agencies and/or use the information to coordinate their activities with other agencies. 7. Change Passwords If any account information turns up in dark web scans, or you receive information about a data breach at any company or institution where you have an online account, update your passwords immediately. Even if you don't think your data is compromised, changing passwords regularly is good practice, as is using a free password manager that generates and stores secure and unique passwords for you. Fraud Alert vs. Credit Freeze Fraud alerts and credit freezes are two of the best ways to avoid fraud and protect your credit. There are multiple differences between fraud alerts and security freezes, but the basic rundown of the two credit protection measures are as follows. Fraud Alert | Credit Freeze | ---|---| What it is | Creditors are asked to verify your identity before opening credit in your name | Access to credit reports is limited so creditors cannot open new accounts in your name unless you thaw or unfreeze your report | ---|---|---| Best for | Someone who may need to apply for new credit in the near future | Someone who doesn't expect to apply for new credit in the near future | ---|---|---| Cost | Free | Free | ---|---|---| Duration | One year for temporary or active-duty fraud alert; seven years for extended fraud victim alert | Indefinite | ---|---|---| Can it be renewed? | Yes | Yes | ---|---|---| How to set up | Online, by phone or by mail; the other credit bureaus will be notified when a fraud alert is set up at one bureau | Online, by phone or by mail; all three major credit bureaus must be notified separately | ---|---|---| How to Place a Fraud Alert You can request a fraud alert by contacting any of the three national credit bureaus (Experian, TransUnion or Equifax) online, by phone or by mail. Placing a fraud alert online through Experian's Fraud Alert Center is quick and convenient. When you place a fraud alert on one of your credit reports, the other two credit bureaus will be notified and an alert placed on those reports as well. Visit Experian's online Fraud Alert Center. - Log in or register for a free Experian account. - Select the type of fraud alert you want (an initial alert, extended fraud victim alert if you're a victim of identity theft or an active-duty alert). You'll be prompted to enter your phone number, which Experian will include in your fraud alert for lenders to use to verify your identity. You can opt not to include a phone number by leaving this field blank. - Follow the prompts on screen to place a fraud alert. If you're placing an extended fraud alert, you'll be instructed to upload supporting documents electronically or by mail. - How to Place a Fraud Alert by Phone or Mail While Experian's online service is the quickest and most convenient way to place a fraud alert, you can also place a fraud alert by contacting Experian by mail or phone. To place a fraud alert through the mail, write to: Experian P.O. Box 9554 Allen, TX 75013 - To place a fraud alert over the phone, call Experian's toll-free phone number: - How to Freeze Your Credit Placing a security freeze differs somewhat at each of the three national credit bureaus, but all three bureaus enable you to apply and remove freezes online, by phone or by mail. Note that unlike a fraud alert, you must place and remove a credit freeze with each credit bureau individually. Experian | TransUnion | Equifax | ---|---|---| Experian Security Freeze | TransUnion | Online Equifax Information Services LLC | When setting up a security freeze, be
