---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/do-fraud-alerts-expire/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:58.804142+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:23 GMT
---
Do Fraud Alerts Expire? Quick Answer Initial fraud alerts and active-duty alerts expire after 12 months and extended fraud alerts last for seven years. You have the right to add a new alert after one expires. Placing a fraud alert on your credit report can help protect you from criminals trying to open credit accounts in your nameâbut it doesn't last forever. Initial fraud alerts and active-duty alerts expire after one year, and extended fraud alerts remain on your credit reports for seven years unless you request the alert to be removed sooner. It's free to request a fraud alert, and you have the right to request a new one to be added once the current one expires. You also have the option to place a security freeze on your credit reports, and your reports will stay frozen until you thaw them. The Different Types of Fraud Alerts There are three types of fraud alerts: initial alerts, extended alerts and active-duty alerts. All three tell creditors that you may be at heightened risk for identity theft or have been a victim of identity theft. Creditors should then take reasonable steps to verify your identity before extending you credit (such as opening a new account or increasing your credit limit). Additionally, with active-duty alerts and extended fraud alerts, your name will be taken off of lists for preapproved credit and insurance offers for two or five years, respectively. Initial Fraud Alert | Extended Fraud Alert | Active-Duty Alert | ---|---|---| Cost | Free | Free | Free | ---|---|---|---| When to use | You suspect you've been or may become a victim of identity theft | You've filed an FTC identity theft report or a police report | You're an active-duty service member and want to protect your credit file | ---|---|---|---| Duration | 1 year | 7 years | 1 year | ---|---|---|---| Removed from prescreened credit and insurance offers | For 6 months | For 5 years | For 2 years | ---|---|---|---| Initial Fraud Alert Initial fraud alerts are for people who suspect they've been or will likely be a victim of fraud. For example, if you lose your wallet or do a dark web scan and see your personal information is compromised, a fraudster may be able to access or buy your information and then try to open an account in your name. Extended Fraud Alert An extended fraud alert, sometimes called a fraud victim statement, is for victims of identity theft. These alerts last longer, but you need to submit a copy of a police report or a Federal Trade Commission (FTC) identity theft report from IdentityTheft.gov to qualify. Active-Duty Alert An active-duty alert is for active-duty military members. It can be helpful for military members, especially those serving overseas, who might be more prone to identity theft while they're deployed. Additionally, you can get a free credit report and ongoing credit monitoring from Experian with IDNotifyTM. How to Request or Remove a Fraud Alert Requesting to add or remove a fraud alert is always free. For all three types of alerts, you only need to submit the request to one of the three major credit bureausâExperian, TransUnion or Equifaxâand it will forward your request on to the other two. You can use Experian's Fraud Alert Center to add an initial or active-duty alert to your credit report online. You can also upload a copy of your identity theft report or police report to request an extended fraud alert, or submit the request and supporting documents by mail. While fraud alerts can last one to seven years, you can remove them early. Though requests to add a fraud alert can be submitted to one bureau and are forwarded to the other two, to remove a fraud alert, you need to contact each of the three major
