---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/are-rewards-cards-worth-it/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:48.947089+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:52 GMT
---
issuer changes throughout the year. There may be a limit on the bonus rewards you can earn each quarter. - Dynamic bonus rewards: Earn bonus rewards on purchases in specific categories that you can choose and change throughout the year. Alternatively, the categories might automatically adjust based on your spending. - You'll still earn rewards on eligible purchases in non-bonus categories if your card has a tiered, rotating or dynamic rewards structure. However, you often only earn 1 point per dollar you spend on non-bonus-category purchases. Learn more: Transactions That Don't Earn Credit Card Rewards Advantages of Credit Card Rewards Although the specifics will depend on the type of rewards card you use, most rewards credit cards offer several benefits. Rewards on Everyday Purchases Earning rewards on purchases you were going to make anyway is one of the main benefits that rewards credit cards offer. Depending on the card, its bonus categories and how you redeem your rewards, you might get 1% to over 5% back on your purchases. Intro Bonuses and Interest Rate Offers Many rewards cards offer an intro bonus to new cardholders who meet certain requirements, such as spending a minimum amount of money during their first few months with the card. You also might receive a low or 0% introductory annual percentage rate (APR) on purchases and/or balance transfers during an introductory period, such as 15 or 21 months. Purchase-Related Benefits Many rewards cards also offer additional purchase protections and benefits. For example, your rewards card might offer complimentary travel insurance, return protection and extended warranties on eligible purchases. Some premium rewards cards also offer primary rental car insurance when you use the card to pay for your rental. Similar coverage might cost you up to $45 a day if you purchase it from the rental car agency. Additional Cardholder Benefits You might get a lot of value from the other benefits that a rewards card offers. These can vary widely, but the best benefits include things like monthly or annual statement credits that can cover or offset certain purchases. Many airline, hotel and store rewards cards also have brand-specific benefits, such as free checked bags, annual room vouchers and status in a loyalty program. Disadvantages of Credit Card Rewards Consider the cons before you apply for a new rewards credit card. May Have a High Interest Rates Rewards cards may have a higher APR than non-rewards cards. You can avoid accruing interest on your purchases if you pay off your balance in full each month. But once you start carrying a balance, the revolved balance and new purchases could accrue interest daily. If you don't tend to pay your bill in full, a low-interest credit card could be a better alternative. Could Lead to Overspending It can be easier to justify a purchase if you're earning rewards, and overspending can lead to revolving a balance and paying interest. If you struggle with compulsive shopping or tend to max out your credit cards, it might be best to avoid rewards cardsâor credit cards altogether. Top Cards Require Good Credit The top rewards cards tend to require good to excellent credit scores, and they won't be options for everyone. Rewards cards that only require poor or fair credit are available, but they tend to offer lower rewards rates and fewer benefits, and may have higher APRs. You could use one of these to help build your credit and then apply for a premium card once you're ready. Unexpected Devaluations or Lost Rewards Points and miles rewards programs can experience unexpected devaluation, such as when an airline changes a redemption requirement from 20,000 to 25,000 miles for a flight. Some rewards can also expire. Even if your rewards don't expire, credit card issuers can take back rewards if they decide you're gaming their rewards program or when they
