---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/score-basics/700-credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:26.651932+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:19 GMT
---
700 Credit Score: Is it Good or Bad? Your score falls within the range of scores, from 670 to 739, which are considered Good. The average U.S. FICOÂ® ScoreÎ, 714, falls within the Good range. Lenders view consumers with scores in the good range as "acceptable" borrowers, and may offer them a variety of credit products, though not necessarily at the lowest-available interest rates. 21% of U.S. consumers' FICOÂ® Scores are in the Good range. Approximately 9% of consumers with Good FICOÂ® Scores are likely to become seriously delinquent in the future. How to improve your 700 Credit Score A FICOÂ® Score of 700 provides access to a broad array of loans and credit card products, but increasing your score can increase your odds of approval for an even greater number, at more affordable lending terms. Additionally, because a 700 FICOÂ® Score is on the lower end of the Good range, you'll probably want to manage your score carefully to prevent dropping into the more restrictive Fair credit score range (580 to 669). 33% of consumers have FICOÂ® Scores lower than 700. The best way to determine how to improve your credit score is to check your FICOÂ® Score. Along with your score, you'll receive information about ways you can boost your score, based on specific information in your credit file. You'll find some good general score-improvement tips here. Understand the benefits of a good credit score A credit score in the good range may reflect a relatively short credit history marked by good credit management. It may also characterize a longer credit history with a few mistakes along the way, such as occasional late or missed payments, or a tendency toward relatively high credit usage rates. Late payments (past due 30 days) appear in the credit reports of 52% of people with FICOÂ® Scores of 700. Lenders see people with scores like yours as solid business prospects. Most lenders are willing to extend credit to borrowers with credit scores in the good range, although they may not offer their very best interest rates, and card issuers may not offer you their most compelling rewards and loyalty bonuses. Staying the course with your Good credit history Having a Good FICOÂ® Score makes you pretty typical among American consumers. That's certainly not a bad thing, but with some time and effort, you can increase your score into the Very Good range (740-799) or even the Exceptional range (800-850). Moving in that direction will require understanding of the behaviors that help grow your score, and those that hinder growth: Late and missed payments are among the most significant influences on your credit scoreâand they aren't good influences. Lenders want borrowers who pay their bills on time, and statisticians predict that people who have missed payments likelier to default (go 90 days past due without a payment) on debt than those who pay promptly. If you have a history of making late payments (or missing them altogether), you'll do your credit score a big solid by kicking that habit. More than one-third of your score (35%) is influenced by the presence (or absence) of late or missed payments. Utilization rate, or usage rate, is a technical way of describing how close you are to "maxing out" your credit card accounts. You can measure utilization on an account-by-account basis by dividing each outstanding balance by the card's spending limit, and then multiplying by 100 to get a percentage. Find your total utilization rate by adding up all the balances and dividing by the sum of all the spending limits: Balance | Spending limit | Utilization rate (%) | ---|---|---| MasterCard | $1,200 | $4,000 | 30% | ---|---|---|---| VISA | $1,000 | $6,000 | 17% | ---|---|---|---| American Express | $3,000 | $10,000 | 30% | ---|---|---|---| Total | $5,200 | $20,000 | 26%
