---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/social-media
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:54:31.658091+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 09 Feb 2026 07:54:28 GMT
---
The Federal Trade Commission’s staff maintains and operates the social media accounts referenced below. Please note that FTC’s social media accounts are hosted on non-Government third-party sites. The FTC does not maintain, use or share personal information from social media sites except as explained in its Privacy Policy and Privacy Impact Assessments. The social media sites and their partners may collect your information and use tracking technology, and their sites are not subject to the FTC’s privacy policy. Please read the privacy policies for X, Facebook, LinkedIn, YouTube, and Reddit. The FTC welcomes the public to informally engage with staff through social media. However, please note that complaints are not officially collected via social media. To file a complaint, please visit reportfraud.ftc.gov, on the FTC’s official Web site, www.ftc.gov. The FTC does not endorse any particular social media site, its sponsor, or any of the policies, activities, products, or services offered on the site or by any advertiser on the site. Retweets, Follows and Likes do not equal endorsements. X Accounts Federal Trade Commission @FTC features the latest FTC news, events, speeches, blogs, videos, articles, job opportunities, tips/resources for consumers and businesses, and posts of FTC partners. Comison Federal de Comercio @LaFTC features the latest FTC news, events, blogs, videos, articles, tips and resources for consumers and businesses in Spanish. Military Consumer @MilConsumer features the latest FTC news, videos, tips and resources for military consumers. Commissioner X Accounts Chairman Andrew N. Ferguson @AFergusonFTC features posts on behalf of Chairman Andrew N. Ferguson. Commissioner Mark R. Meador @MeadorFTC features posts on behalf of Commissioner Mark R. Meador. Federal Trade Commission @federaltradecommission features the latest FTC news, events, blogs, videos, articles, and tips/resources for consumers and businesses. The FTC occasionally hosts Facebook Live events of press conferences. The agency also hosts Facebook Live events to help promote resources for consumers and businesses. Military Consumer @MilitaryConsumer features the latest FTC news, videos, tips and resources for military consumers. @federaltradecommission features the latest FTC news, consumer alerts, articles, and tips/resources for consumers. @federal-trade-commission features the latest FTC job opportunities, news, events, blogs, articles, and tips/resources for the business community. YouTube FTC YouTube Channel @ftcvideos features videos with FTC tips and resources for consumers and businesses. The account also features past FTC workshops and conferences. Reddit is used to conduct Ask Me Anything (AMA) sessions on behalf of FTC commissioners and staff with the public.
