---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-the-difference-between-a-credit-freeze-and-fraud-alert/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:23.077185+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:28 GMT
---
which requires lenders to take extra measures to verify your identity in the event you (or others) apply for credit in your name, or whether you'd prefer the added limitations of a credit freeze. - If you plan to apply for several types of new credit, such as an auto loan, mortgage or credit card, within the next few yearsâor perhaps you're eyeing a new apartment or new cellphone service providerâit might be simpler to activate a fraud alert instead of a series of credit freezes and thaws. - If you don't plan to apply for a new credit card or loan in the near future, a credit freeze might be the best choice. However, you may need to thaw your credit reports if non-lenders like cellphone and internet service providers need to conduct credit checks. - If you're worried that your personal information has been compromised but you haven't been the victim of crime, consider setting up an initial fraud alert. You can remove the fraud alert at any time or renew it each year, depending on your circumstances. - Fraud Alert | Credit Freeze | ---|---| What it is | Creditors are asked to verify your identity before opening credit in your name | Access to credit reports is limited so creditors cannot open new accounts in your name unless you thaw or unfreeze your report | ---|---|---| Best for | Someone who may need to apply for new credit in the near future | Someone who doesn't expect to apply for new credit in the near future | ---|---|---| Cost | Free | Free | ---|---|---| Duration | One year for initial or active-duty fraud alert; seven years for extended fraud victim alert | Indefinite | ---|---|---| Can it be renewed? | Yes | Yes | ---|---|---| How to set up | Online, by phone or by mail; the other credit bureaus will be notified when a fraud alert is set up at one bureau | Online, by phone or by mail; all three major credit bureaus must be notified separately | ---|---|---| The Bottom Line Fraud alerts and credit freezes are two of the free tools you can use to combat credit fraud and identity theft. But they're used in different ways: Fraud alerts are typically more temporary and allow access to your credit file with added identity verification, while credit freezes have more restrictions on credit file access and can last indefinitely. In tandem with these tools, it's smart to regularly review your credit report from Experian for free so you can spot any potentially suspicious activity. Monitor your credit for free Credit monitoring can help you detect possible identity fraud, and can prevent surprises when you apply for credit. Get daily notifications when changes are detected. Get free monitoringAbout the author John Egan is a freelance writer, editor and content marketing strategist in Austin, Texas. His work has been published by outlets such as CreditCards.com, Bankrate, Credit Karma, LendingTree, PolicyGenius, HuffPost, National Real Estate Investor and Urban Land. Read more from John
