---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-establish-credit-as-a-young-person/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:25.477507+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:43 GMT
---
How to Establish Credit as a Young Person: Start Building Credit Now Quick Answer Establishing credit may not be at the top of your list upon turning 18, but the sooner you start, the more opportunities youâll haveâand the more money you could save. Here are the best strategies to kick off credit-building. When you turn 18, a whole new world of possibilities opens up to you. Voting or getting a tattoo might be among the first things that jump to mind, but building credit should also be on the list as you reach legal adulthood. The sooner you start establishing a positive credit history, the better. This can help you save money and access more opportunities, such as getting a credit card, renting an apartment and landing a job. As you transition into adulthood, you can establish credit by getting a credit card or loan, using special credit-building products or by becoming an authorized user on your parents' credit card. Why You Should Start Building Credit Early Young people often have limited experience with credit and don't realize all the ways that having good credit makes certain aspects of life easierâand more affordable. Here are some ways building credit while you're young can help you now and later. Renting an apartment: Landlords typically check an applicant's credit report before approval to see if there's a history of on-time bill payment or risks like late payments and high debt. Prospective tenants with poor or no credit might be denied, be required to pay a higher security deposit or need a cosigner or guarantor on the lease. - Getting your own utilities: Utility companiesâincluding power, water, internet and phone providersâoften run a credit check for new customers. Without a credit history, you may not yet be able to open accounts in your own name, or you'll have to pay a deposit to be approved. - Applying for credit: Your credit history and scores influence whether financial institutions approve or deny your loan and credit card applications. Established credit makes you more likely to get approved and receive better terms, such as lower interest rates. - Landing a job: Some employers run credit checks on job applicants for a sense of their financial health and responsibility. It's possible this will be a factor in your job hunt, though some cities and states restrict credit reports from being used when hiring. - Obtaining insurance: While you may still be on your family's car insurance policy, that won't always be the case. In some states, your credit history can impact insurance rates, with better credit potentially lowering premiums. - Refinancing loans: If you take out private student loans that have steep interest rates, for example, you could refinance them later at a lower interest rate if you have good credit and a steady job. - What's the Best Way for a Young Person to Build Credit? There are many ways to build credit, and all involve actions that result in creditors reporting your payment information to the major consumer credit bureaus: Experian, TransUnion and Equifax. To get started, try one or more of these options. 1. Open a Student or Secured Credit Card You can open your own credit card starting at age 18. College students can apply for a student credit card, which is often easier to get approved for as a first credit card than a regular card. However, student cards are unsecured credit cards, so if you're under 21, you likely won't get approved unless you have proof of your own income or a parent cosigns. If you can't qualify for a student card, or you're not in school, consider a secured credit card to start building your credit instead. These require a security deposit, which typically becomes your credit limit. Secured cards are typically easier to obtain than regular unsecured
