---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/administrative-adjudication-proceedings/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:19.131820+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
orders, and quash or modify any such subpoenas or orders - To take depositions or cause depositions to be taken - To receive and rule upon the admission of evidence - To regulate the course of a proceeding and the conduct of parties and their counsel - To rule on the admissibility and confidentiality of written submissions - To conduct conferences for settlement, simplification of issues, or any other proper purpose - To inform parties of the availability of alternative means of dispute resolution and encourage use of such methods - To certify questions to the director for his or her determination in accordance with the rules of practice for adjudication proceedings - To consider and rule upon all procedural and other motions - To issue and file recommended decisions - To recuse himself or herself as necessary - To issue sanctions against parties or their counsel as necessary - To do all other things necessary and appropriate to discharge the duties of a presiding hearing officer - 12 C.F.R. ยง 1081.104 Representing parties before an administrative law judge Attorneys: Any attorney in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State may represent a party in an administrative adjudication proceeding if such attorney is not currently suspended or debarred from practice before the Bureau or by a court of the United States or of any State. - Non-attorneys: So long as such individual is not currently suspended or debarred from practice before the Bureau: - An individual may appear on his or her own behalf - A member of a partnership may represent the partnership - A duly authorized officer of a corporation, trust, or association may represent the corporation, trust, or association - A duly authorized officer or employee of any government unit, agency, or authority may represent that unit, agency, or authority - Any individual acting as counsel on behalf of a party shall file a notice of appearance. - 12 C.F.R. ยง 1081.107 Ex parte communications Ex parte communications with the administrative law judge are not allowed. An ex parte communication is any material oral or written communication relevant to the merits of an adjudication proceeding that is not made on the record or with reasonable prior notice to all the parties that takes place between interested persons not employed by the Bureau and the administrative law judge, director, or a decisional employee. A request for status of the proceeding does not constitute an ex parte communication. If an ex parte communication is received, its content shall be placed on the record of the proceeding. All parties shall be informed and have an opportunity to file responses thereto and recommend appropriate sanctions. 12 C.F.R. ยง 1081.110 Rules of evidence Generally, evidence that is relevant, material, reliable, and not unduly repetitive is admissible in administrative hearings. Relevant evidence may be excluded, however, if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice or confusion of the issues; if it would be misleading; or based on considerations of undue delay, waste of time, or needless presentation of cumulative evidence. Evidence that constitutes hearsay may be admitted if it is relevant, material, and bears satisfactory indicia of reliability. Evidence that would be admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence is admissible. Evidence that would be inadmissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence may not be deemed or ruled to be inadmissible solely on that basis. Official notice may be taken of any material fact that is not subject to reasonable dispute in that it is either generally known or capable of accurate and ready determination by resort to sources whose accuracy cannot reasonably be questioned. A party is entitled to present its case or defense by sworn oral testimony and documentary evidence, to submit rebuttal evidence, and to conduct cross-examination as, in the
