---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-secured-loan/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:25.098955+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:17 GMT
---
a mortgage, your home will always serve as the collateral. But other types of assets can be used as collateral, too, including: Real estate, such as your home - Cash and financial accounts, including checking accounts, savings accounts, certificates of deposit accounts, and money market accounts - Cars, trucks and other vehicles - Stocks, mutual funds and bond investments - Insurance policies, including life insurance - Precious metals, high-end collectibles and other valuables - Secured vs. Unsecured Loans The main difference between secured loans and unsecured loans is that an unsecured loan doesn't require you to put up any collateral to qualify. That major difference has other implications for how these types of loans work, who can qualify, the interest rate you'll pay and the consequences of missed payments. Without collateral on the line, approval for an unsecured loan relies primarily on your credit report and score, your debt payment history and your debt-to-income ratio (DTI). Credit cards, student loans and personal loans are among the most common forms of unsecured loans. Secured Loan | Unsecured Loan | ---|---| Collateral required? | Yes | No | ---|---|---| Interest rates | May be lower due to less lender risk | Generally higher than secured loans | ---|---|---| Consequence of default | Loss of the collateral, as well as damage to your credit and possible fees | Damage to your credit, fees and debt collection | ---|---|---| Common examples | Mortgages, auto loans, home equity loans and HELOCs, secured personal loans and secured credit cards | Credit cards, personal loans and student loans | ---|---|---| Pros and Cons of Secured Loans Secured loans offer certain benefits that unsecured loans don't, but always consider the advantages and the risks of secured loans before you apply. Pros of Secured Loans Easier to access: It can be easier for applicants with low or fair credit to qualify for a secured loan or a larger personal loan amount because the collateral mitigates some risk for the lender. - More affordable: Secured loans tend to offer lower interest rates than a comparable unsecured loan because the lender takes on less risk. That said, review the individual loan's termsâsome secured loans, such as car title loans, can have high rates. - Build credit going forward: Borrowing a secured personal loan or using a secured credit card and managing it responsibly with on-time payments can help you build credit to qualify for other types of loans going forward. - Cons of Secured Loans Risk of losing assets: Getting a secured loan puts your personal property on the line. If you default on your secured loan, the lender can take your collateral. - Risk to your credit: If you default on the loan and the lender takes your collateral, the repossession or foreclosure will remain on your credit report for up to seven years. Next to bankruptcy, foreclosure does the most damage to your credit. - Lengthy underwriting process: Verifying the value of an asset is a lengthier process than simply running a credit check, so loans that use your assets for collateral often require substantially more time to go through review and get approved. As an example, getting approved for a mortgage can be time-intensive and requires appraisal and inspection. - What Happens if You Default on a Secured Loan? The consequences of defaulting on a secured loan depend on how far you fall behind on your payments and on the specific terms of the secured loan you've borrowed. In general, missing a payment on your debt can result in lender-assessed late fees. Being at least 30 days late on a payment can result in a late payment showing on your credit report and damaging your credit score. If you stop making payments on the loan altogether, the lender can seize your collateral. In most instances, the lender's repossession
