---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-personal-loans-8761582
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:29.905651+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
on a variety of factors, including evaluation of your credit worthiness, income, and other factors. Loan amounts range from $5,000– $100,000. The APR is the cost of credit as a yearly rate and reflects both your interest rate and an origination fee of 9.99% of your loan amount for Cross River Bank originated loans which will be deducted from any loan proceeds you receive and for SoFi Bank originated loans have an origination fee of 0%-7%, will be deducted from any loan proceeds you receive. The SoFi 0.25% autopay interest rate reduction requires you to agree to make monthly principal and interest payments by an automatic monthly deduction from a savings or checking account. The benefit will discontinue and be lost for periods in which you do not pay by automatic deduction from a savings or checking account. Autopay is not required to receive a loan from SoFi. To be eligible to receive an additional (0.25%) interest rate reduction on your Personal Loan (your “Loan”), you must set up Direct deposit with a SoFi Checking and Savings account offered by SoFi Bank, N.A., or enroll in SoFi Plus by paying the SoFi Plus Subscription Fee, all within 30 days of the funding of your Loan. Once eligible, you will receive this discount during periods in which you have enabled Direct Deposit to an eligible Direct Deposit Account in accordance with SoFi’s reasonable procedures and requirements to be determined at SoFi’s sole discretion, or during periods in which SoFi successfully receives payment of the SoFi Plus Subscription Fee. This discount will be lost during periods in which SoFi determines you have turned off Direct Deposit to your Checking and Savings account or in which you have not paid for the SoFi Plus Subscription Fee. You are not required to enroll in Direct Deposit or to pay the SoFi Plus Subscription Fee to receive a Loan. Read the Full SoFi Personal Loans Review Best for Debt Consolidation : Discover Investopedia's Rating 4.4 out of 5 stars APR Range: 7.99% - 24.99% Loan Amount: $2,500 - $40,000 Loan Terms: 36 months - 84 months Check Rates (opens in a new tab) On Investopedia Why We Chose It Discover, with competitive APRs and no origination fee, is a good choice for personal loans for any reason. But because it will pay your creditors directly, it’s an especially good choice for debt consolidation. Pros & Cons Pros No origination fee or late fee Excellent customer satisfaction ratings Creditor direct pay Cons No co-signers or co-borrowers Lower maximum loan amount Can’t be used for secured debt consolidation Overview We picked Discover as the best lender for debt consolidation because of its low advertised APRs, range of repayment terms, and the option to have Discover pay your creditors directly. This is convenient for you, but also offers a bit of risk reduction for the lender. Loan funding is fast, as soon as the next business day, if everything in your application is accurate. Discover’s reputation for customer service was borne out during our research. Our reviewers rated the website and its broad collection of tools, calculators, and educational material a 4 (out of 5 possible). Meanwhile, Discover rated second in the J.D. Powers 2024 U.S. Consumer Lending Satisfaction Study. One downside with Discover is that it does not accept co-signers or co-borrowers who can help borrowers with lower credit scores qualify for a loan. The maximum loan amount ($40,000) is not as high as many competing lenders, although the lower minimum ($2,500) makes it a good choice if you’re looking for a smaller loan. Discover, founded in 1986, was a subsidiary of Sears, Roebuck & Company, which was created to offer Sears shoppers credit card services. Today, from its headquarters in Illinois, it offers credit cards, home loans, CDs, and savings and checking accounts. Additional Details Minimum
