---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-life-insurance-companies-8763666
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:17.041413+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
your term life insurance policy, you may consider opting for a convertible term life insurance policy. These policies give people the option of converting their term life policies into permanent whole life policies without undergoing an additional medical exam. Whole Life Insurance Whole life insurance is a type of permanent life insurance that offers lifelong coverage. This means that as long as a policyholder keeps up with their premiums, their beneficiaries are guaranteed to receive a death benefit when they pass away. Whole life insurance is typically much more expensive than term life. Like other permanent life insurance policies, whole life insurance offers a savings feature known as cash value, which policyholders can borrow from, withdraw, and use to pay premiums. With whole life insurance policies, premiums are typically level, which means they’re fixed during your lifetime while you have the policy. Here’s how permanent life insurance works: When a policyholder pays a premium, a portion of it goes towards the ‘cost-of-insurance’, which includes administrative costs and the cost of the death benefit. Another portion of the premium is allocated towards cash value. Typically, whole life insurance policies offer a fixed rate on cash value, so the rate doesn’t fluctuate with changes in the economy or the market. Some insurers will even pay dividends on cash value. Dividends are profits from the insurer that are returned to policyholders, but they may not be guaranteed. Universal Life Insurance Universal life insurance is another type of permanent life insurance. It offers more flexibility than whole life insurance. Universal life insurance policyholders can typically adjust their death benefits and premiums. With universal life insurance, policyholders can make lower or higher premium payments within a certain range. If a policyholder chooses to pay less than the minimum premium, their cash value will be used to cover the rest of the cost. Yet if a policyholder regularly makes only the minimum premium amount, they could be at risk of their coverage lapsing if they don’t have enough cash value built up to cover their premiums. Additionally, universal life insurance offers a variable rate on cash value, so the return may vary with changes in market conditions. However, there is still a minimum rate on cash value. If you decide to terminate your universal life insurance policy, your remaining cash value will be returned to you. There may be fees, known as surrender charges, and outstanding loans subtracted from that amount. The total amount you get back, sans surrender charges, is referred to as the cash surrender value. Note that surrender charges typically decline the longer you’ve had the policy and may not be charged after you’ve had the policy for at least 10 to 15 years. No-Medical-Exam Life Insurance As the name implies, no-medical-exam life insurance applicants are not required to complete a medical exam to qualify for a policy. This type of insurance allows applicants to simplify the application process, but these policies generally charge higher premiums and may offer lower coverage amounts because insurers may not have a complete picture of health. There are three categories of no-medical-exam life insurance: accelerated underwriting, simplified issue, and guaranteed issue. Accelerated underwriting: With accelerated underwriting, insurers may still require a health questionnaire, but they also evaluate data like an individual’s prescription history, criminal records, and more. Some insurers may charge higher premiums for these policies, but some may not. Accelerated underwriting has tougher standards than other no-medical-exam policies. In exchange, you can usually apply for much larger amounts of coverage, up to $1 million or more, depending on the insurer. Simplified issue: Simplified issue life insurance also typically requires a medical questionnaire. Approval for these policies is fast, but companies may limit coverage to up to $100,000 maximum. These policies may be best for those with medical conditions, as you may be denied coverage or charged
