---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-identity-theft/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:27.402047+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:23 GMT
---
report anytime, making it easier to watch out for unfamiliar activity. Be Vigilant When Online When using public Wi-Fi networks, consider using a virtual private network (VPN) to keep your internet connection private and secure. Also, if you're visiting a website, check the URL to see if it's secureâthe URL should start with HTTPS. Even if it's secure, though, research websites you don't recognize to find out if they're legitimate. Consider Identity Theft Protection Services If you want an extra level of protection against identity theft, consider signing up for an identity theft protection service. These services can add an extra level of protection and help you spot possible signs of identity theft early. Experian's identity theft protection service offers identity theft monitoring, dark web surveillance, assistance with fraud and ID theft insurance, among other features. Diligence Pays Off Recognizing the signs of identity theft and taking steps to prevent it can save you heartache, stress and loss. As you monitor your credit regularly, watch out for suspicious transactions, accounts and notifications, and act fast when something is off. If you're diligent, you'll be in a better position to catch identity theft early before it ruins more than just your day. Monitor your credit for free Credit monitoring can help you detect possible identity fraud, and can prevent surprises when you apply for credit. Get daily notifications when changes are detected. Get free monitoringAbout the author Ben Luthi has worked in financial planning, banking and auto finance, and writes about all aspects of money. His work has appeared in Time, Success, USA Today, Credit Karma, NerdWallet, Wirecutter and more. Read more from Ben
