---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-debt-relief-companies-8763179
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:00.590678+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
for the associated savings account, in which you’ll make deposits to build up your settlement fund. If Accredited Debt Relief is able to negotiate a settlement and you agree to the terms, you’ll be charged up to 25% of the enrolled debt. Tip You may also be offered debt consolidation loans through Accredited Debt Relief’s partners, but we don’t recommend getting a loan this way. Instead, check with a variety of debt consolidation loan lenders to find the lowest rates you can get before making a decision. Best for Customer Satisfaction : TurboDebt Investopedia's Rating 4.7 out of 5 stars Services: Debt settlementDebt settlement fee: 15% to 25% of enrolled debtMinimum debt required: $7,500 Learn More (opens in a new tab) Pros and Cons Pros $7,500 minimum debt requirement Excellent customer reviews Relatively low minimum fee (15%) Cons Relatively new company (founded in 2020) Not available in MN, OR, WV, or CT No legal support Why We Chose It TurboDebt is a relative newcomer to the debt settlement scene, but over 650,000 people have already enrolled to find help resolving their debts. TurboDebt has garnered thousands of great reviews from happy customers, giving it the best Investopedia overall customer satisfaction rating among all of the companies we researched, with a score of 4.9 out of 5. TurboDebt’s services are straightforward. It works with basic types of unsecured debt, like credit card and homeowner debt, along with business debts. And it’s accredited by the ACDR and IAPDA, professional organizations that ensure a certain standard of service and compliance with regulations. TurboDebt is available in most states, except the few specified above. It’s headquartered in Sunrise, Florida. Fees and Costs TurboDebt’s service starts with a free consultation to make sure you’re a good fit for debt settlement. If you decide to enroll, you’ll need to open a savings account with a partner bank, but the company doesn’t disclose the fees associated with that account. If a settlement is reached, TurboDebt charges 15% to 25% of the enrolled debt. According to the company, customers save an average of 46% before fees, or 25% after fees. Also Great for Debt Settlement : Pacific Debt Relief Investopedia's Rating 4.5 out of 5 stars Pacific Debt Relief Services: Debt settlement, debt consolidation loansDebt settlement fee: 15% to 25% of enrolled debtMinimum debt required: $10,000 Learn More (opens in a new tab) Pros & Cons Pros Accredited by 3 professional agencies Long-established company (founded in 2002) Great customer satisfaction ratings Cons Minimum debt requirement of $10,000 Limited service area—41 states and D.C. No legal support available Why We Chose It Pacific Debt Relief is worth a look if you live in an eligible state. You’ll pay 15% to 25% of any debt that Pacific is able to settle, a fairly standard fee range for debt settlement companies. Unfortunately, like many companies, it doesn’t disclose the fees for the savings account that will hold your settlement fund. Pacific is able to help with a range of debts, from typical consumer debts like credit cards and medical bills to repossessions and business debts. It’s accredited by the ACDR, IAPDA, and CDRI. Past customers are quite pleased with the service, overall—Pacific earned a score of 4.81 out of 5 in Investopedia’s combined customer satisfaction rating. According to the company, most clients save 30% to 50% on their enrolled debt. Pacific Debt Relief has been in business since 2002 and is based in San Diego, California. Learn more in our full Pacific Debt Relief review. Important Pacific Debt Relief is available in Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, the District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah,
