---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
a security freeze placed on the consumer report of a consumer only in the following cases: (i) Upon the direct request of the consumer. (ii) The security freeze was placed due to a material misrepresentation of fact by the consumer. (B) Notice if removal not by request. If a consumer reporting agency removes a security freeze under subparagraph (A)(ii), the consumer reporting agency shall notify the consumer in writing prior to removing the security freeze. 32§ 605A - 15 U.S.C. § 1681c-1 (C) Removal of security freeze by consumer request. Except as provided in subparagraph (A)(ii), a security freeze shall remain in place until the consumer directly requests that the security freeze be removed. Upon receiving a direct request from a consumer that a consumer reporting agency remove a security freeze, and upon receiving proper identification from the consumer, the consumer reporting agency shall, free of charge, remove the security freeze not later than – (i) in the case of a request that is by toll-free telephone or secure electronic means, 1 hour after receiving the request for removal; or (ii) in the case of a request that is by mail, 3 business days after receiving the request for removal. (D) Third-party requests. If a third party requests access to a con - sumer report of a consumer with respect to which a security freeze is in effect, where such request is in connection with an application for credit, and the consumer does not allow such consumer report to be accessed, the third party may treat the application as incomplete. (E) Temporary removal of security freeze. Upon receiving a direct request from a consumer under subparagraph (A)(i), if the consumer requests a temporary removal of a security freeze, the consumer reporting agency shall, in accordance with subparagraph (C), remove the security freeze for the period of time specified by the consumer. (4) Exceptions. A security freeze shall not apply to the making of a consumer report for use of the following: (A) A person or entity, or a subsidiary, affiliate, or agent of that person or entity, or an assignee of a financial obligation owed by the consumer to that person or entity, or a prospective assignee of a financial obligation owed by the consumer to that person or entity in conjunction with the proposed purchase of the financial obligation, with which the consumer has or had prior to assignment an account or contract including a demand deposit account, or to whom the consumer issued a negotiable instrument, for the purposes of reviewing the account or collecting the financial obligation owed for the account, contract, or negotiable instrument. For purposes of this subparagraph, ‘reviewing the account’ includes activities related § 605A - 15 U.S.C. § 1681c-1 33 to account maintenance, monitoring, credit line increases, and account upgrades and enhancements. (B) Any Federal, State, or local agency, law enforcement agency, trial court, or private collection agency acting pursuant to a court order, warrant, or subpoena. (C) A child support agency acting pursuant to part D of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 651 et seq.). (D) A Federal agency or a State or its agents or assigns acting to investigate fraud or acting to investigate or collect delinquent taxes or unpaid court orders or to fulfill any of its other statutory responsibilities, provided such responsibilities are consistent with a permissible purpose under section 604. (E) By a person using credit information for the purposes described under section 604(c). (F) Any person or entity administering a credit file monitoring subscription or similar service to which the consumer has subscribed. (G) Any person or entity for the purpose of providing a consumer with a copy of the consumer’s consumer report or credit score, upon the request of the consumer. (H) Any person using the information in connection with the underwriting
