---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/length-of-credit-history-affect-credit-scores/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:53.254654+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:55 GMT
---
How Does Length of Credit History Affect Credit Score? Quick Answer Your length of credit history directly impacts your credit scores, but itâs not necessarily as important as other scoring factors like payment history and how much you owe on your accounts. The length of your credit history and age of your credit accounts directly impacts your credit scores. While not necessarily the most important scoring factor, a long history of managing credit, like loans and credit cards, can help you build excellent credit. This is especially true if your credit history also shows a long track record of on-time payments. What Is Length of Credit History? Length of credit history refers to the age of the accounts that show up in your credit reports, like personal loans or credit cards. Credit scoring models look at your length of credit history to evaluate your experience with credit. When calculating your credit scores, scoring models analyze numerous credit age-related metrics, including: Average age of your accounts - Age of your oldest account - How long it's been since you last opened a new account - Credit scoring factors can also be interdependent, so the length of your credit history may also directly impact other important scoring factors, like payment history. If you have a credit account that's been open for 10 years and you've faithfully made payments each month, for example, your credit report and credit scores will reflect that long history of on-time payments. Tip: Credit scoring models get your length of credit history by analyzing your credit reports from the three national credit reporting companies (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax). If you get your free credit report from Experian, you'll see the average age of accounts and the age of your oldest account. Length of Credit History vs. Credit Age Your length of credit history refers to how long an individual account has been open. Credit age, on the other hand, typically refers to the average length of time all your accounts have been open. Example: Say you have the following accounts shown on your credit reports: Credit card one: Five years - Credit card two: Two years - Mortgage: 15 years - The length of credit history of each account is five years, two years and 15 years, respectively. The cumulative credit age of all the accounts is roughly seven years and four months. When looking at the key FICOÂ® ScoreÎ factors, length of credit history is one of the key factors in determining your credit score. In this case, "length of credit history" is a cumulative measure of the age of your oldest account, the age of your newest account and the average age of all your credit accounts. What Is a Good Length of Credit History? As a general rule of thumb, the longer your credit history, the better it is for your credit. So a "good" length of credit history needs to be built up over time. This means if you're new to building credit, your length of credit history will naturally be shorter than someone who has been using credit for years. But as you continue to use credit responsibly, like loans or credit cards, your length of credit history can grow and potentially raise your score. Learn more: How "Short Account History" Affects Your FICOÂ® Score What Happens When You Close an Account? Accounts don't stay on your credit reports forever. When you close an account, such as a credit card, or pay off a loan in full, the payment history is capped and the account shows up your credit reports as closed. But, for the purposes of calculating length of credit history, the age of the account won't immediately be cancelled. Additionally, when you close an account in good standing (meaning with no late payments), the account can remain on your credit reports
