---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
website for contacting the person or entity who developed the score or developed the methodology of the score. (B) Exception. This paragraph shall not apply to a consumer reporting agency that develops or modifies scores that are developed by another person or entity. (6) Maintenance of credit scores not required . This subsection shall not be construed to require a consumer reporting agency to maintain credit scores in its files. (7) Compliance in certain cases . In complying with this subsection, a consumer reporting agency shall – (A) supply the consumer with a credit score that is derived from a credit scoring model that is widely distributed to users by that consumer reporting agency in connection with residential real property loans or with a credit score that assists the consumer in understanding the credit scoring assessment of the credit behavior of the consumer and predictions about the future credit behavior of the consumer; and (B) a statement indicating that the information and credit scoring model may be different than that used by the lender. (8) Fair and reasonable fee. A consumer reporting agency may charge a fair and reasonable fee, as determined by the Bureau, for providing the information required under this subsection. See also 69 Fed. Reg. 64698 (11/08/04) (9) Use of enquiries as a key factor. If a key factor that adversely affects the credit score of a consumer consists of the number of enquiries made with respect to a consumer report, that factor shall be included in the disclosure pursuant to paragraph (1)(C) without regard to the numerical limitation in such paragraph. (g) Disclosure of Credit Scores by Certain Mortgage Lenders (1) In general . Any person who makes or arranges loans and who uses a consumer credit score, as defined in subsection (f), in connection with an application initiated or sought by a consumer for a closed end § 609 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681g 55 loan or the establishment of an open end loan for a consumer purpose that is secured by 1 to 4 units of residential real property (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the “lender”) shall provide the following to the consumer as soon as reasonably practicable: (A) Information Required under Subsection (f) (i) In general. A copy of the information identified in subsection (f) that was obtained from a consumer reporting agency or was developed and used by the user of the information. (ii) Notice under subparagraph (D) . In addition to the information provided to it by a third party that provided the credit score or scores, a lender is only required to provide the notice contained in subparagraph (D). (B) Disclosures in Case of Automated Underwriting System (i) In general . If a person that is subject to this subsection uses an automated underwriting system to underwrite a loan, that person may satisfy the obligation to provide a credit score by disclosing a credit score and associated key factors supplied by a consumer reporting agency. (ii) Numerical credit score. However, if a numerical credit score is generated by an automated underwriting system used by an enterprise, and that score is disclosed to the person, the score shall be disclosed to the consumer consistent with subparagraph (c). (iii) Enterprise defined. For purposes of this subparagraph, the term “enterprise” has the same meaning as in paragraph (6) of section 1303 of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992. (C) Disclosures of credit scores not obtained from a consumer reporting agency. A person that is subject to the provisions of this subsection and that uses a credit score, other than a credit score provided by a consumer reporting agency, may satisfy the obligation to provide a credit score by disclosing a credit score and associated key factors supplied by a consumer reporting agency. (D) Notice to home
