---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-get-5000-personal-loan/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:21.681102+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:44 GMT
---
let's say you want to use a personal loan for a home renovation. You can use a personal loan calculator to see how the amount you borrow translates into a monthly loan payment. Personal loan calculator Example: A $10,000 loan at 12% interest over three years would cost $332 per month. But a $7,000 loan with the same terms would cost $233 per month. You may decide, after reviewing your budget, that choosing the smaller loan would be best. Learn more: How to Budget With a New Personal Loan 3. Compare Different Lenders Once you know how much you want to borrow, compare lenders and their offerings. You have the best shot at getting a low-interest personal loan if you review multiple options across banks, credit unions and online lenders. Consider the following aspects of each lender's product: Fees: It's common for personal loans to come with origination fees of 1% to 10% of the loan amount. This is a one-time fee that the lender will subtract from the loan principal at the start of your term, meaning it will disburse a lower amount than you initially applied for. Other fees to consider when comparing loans are late fees and application fees. - Interest rate: Personal loans typically have fixed interest rates, but variable rates that change with market conditions may also be available. A good interest rate for a personal loan is lower than the average, which was 11.65% on two-year loans at commercial banks as of November 2025. The rate you qualify for will be based on many factors, including your credit score, the loan term and the loan size. Smaller loans and those with shorter terms generally carry lower interest rates. - Loan type: Personal loans may be either secured or unsecured. A secured loan is backed by collateral that you could lose if you don't pay off the loan as agreed. Secured loans may let you access a lower rate, larger loan amount or better chances at approval. But they're riskier than unsecured loans, so weigh the tradeoffs before choosing one. - 4. Prequalify if Possible Once you have a set of lenders you're interested in, go through the prequalification process to see what rates you might qualify for. That will help you compare personalized loan offers. The benefit to prequalifying is that the lender will perform a soft inquiry to view your credit report information, which won't result in a temporary drop to your credit score like a hard inquiry would. Many lenders offer prequalification forms on their websites, or you can see if you prequalify for multiple loans at a time using Experian's loan comparison tool. 5. Apply Finally, submit a full application with your chosen lender to confirm your final rate and terms. You'll need to provide ID and details about your income, housing payment and employment status. The lender will then formally check your credit. You may get an approval decision right away or in a few days, with some lenders taking up to a week to make an approval decision. The money could reach your account immediately or after one to five days. Banks and credit unions typically take longer to approve loan applications and to fund loans than online lenders. Learn more: How Long Does It Take to Get a Personal Loan? How to Get a $5,000 Loan With Bad Credit It is possible to get a $5,000 loan with bad credit, which is a FICOÂ® ScoreÎ of 580 or below. But you will likely encounter high fees and interest rates as a result, which can make the annual percentage rate, or APRâthe true cost of taking out the loanâsurpass 100%. To improve your chances of qualifying for a more affordable loan, consider getting a cosigner who can add their name and their strong credit to the loanâthough they will
