---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/average-cost-car-insurance/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:36.876054+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:56 GMT
---
an average of $2,322 annually or $193 per month. As you get older, your car insurance rates typically go downâsometimes considerably, as the chart below shows. Car insurance premiums generally decline steadily until you reach your mid-70s, when they tend to tick upwards again. Age | Female | Male | ---|---|---| Under 20 | $3,217 | $3,384 | ---|---|---| 20-29 | $2,695 | $2,760 | ---|---|---| 30-39 | $2,393 | $2,281 | ---|---|---| 40-49 | $2,274 | $2,160 | ---|---|---| 50-59 | $2,022 | $1,966 | ---|---|---| 60-69 | $1,763 | $1,734 | ---|---|---| 70-79 | $1,741 | $1,854 | ---|---|---| 80 or above | $1,796 | $1,961 | ---|---|---| Source: Experian Note: Costs above are a blended average of full and minimum coverage policies How Your Driving Record Impacts Your Insurance Costs Practicing safe driving habits can reduce your risk of accidents or traffic citations. This can pay off in lower insurance premiums: Drivers with a "clean" driving record that shows no incidents or violations pay an average of $2,161 annually or $180 per month for car insurance. One moving violation brings those premiums to an average of $2,510 per year. If your driving record includes moving violations or accidents (even fender-benders where you weren't at fault), insurance companies may view you as a higher-risk driver and raise your car insurance premiums to compensate. The chart below shows how the number and severity of infractions may impact your insurance costs. Incidents include things like traffic accidents or insurance claims; violations include moving violations, such as speeding tickets. Driving Record | Annual Cost | ---|---| Clean | $2,161 | 1 Incident | $2,510 | 1 Violation | $2,615 | 2 Incidents | $2,721 | 2 Violations | $2,627 | 3+ Incidents | $3,160 | 3+ Violations | $2,932 | Source: Experian Note: Costs above are a blended average of full and minimum coverage policies Cheapest Car Insurance Rates by Carrier Elements such as your age, location and vehicle greatly affect the cost of car insurance, but they aren't the only factors impacting your premiums. Each insurance company uses its own criteria when determining rates, so the price you're quoted can differ widely from one insurance carrier to another. The table below shows the cheapest full coverage auto insurance among the insurance carriers that sell the most policies nationwide. Carrier | Annual Cost | Monthly Cost | ---|---|---| Travelers | $1,803 | $150 | ---|---|---| Liberty Mutual | $2,334 | $194 | ---|---|---| Nationwide | $2,473 | $206 | ---|---|---| Root | $2,508 | $209 | ---|---|---| Mercury | $2,606 | $217 | ---|---|---| Source: Experian data as of December 2025 Note: Costs above represent insurance quotes, not policy premiums While it's impossible to know the formula each insurance provider uses to set rates, factors such as the company's projected operating costs, estimated claims expenditures, risk tolerance and profitability goals all figure into the calculations. Some companies might have higher overhead expenses than others, for example, which could mean higher premiums. Shopping around and comparing quotes from several different insurance companies for similar levels of coverage can help you find the most affordable car insurance for you. How to Save on Car Insurance Whether your current car insurance premiums are above average, below average or somewhere in between, there are several steps you can take to save on car insurance. Increase your deductible. You can choose your deductible, which is the amount you're responsible for when you file a claim. Raising the deductible generally lowers your premiums. Just be sure you could afford to pay the higher deductible if necessary. - Drop unnecessary coverage. Cutting out extras such as roadside assistance or rental car reimbursement coverage could lower your car insurance rates. If your paid-off car is older and not worth very much, and you could afford to repair or replace
