---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/life-stages/articles/-/learn/how-long-will-your-money-last-in-retirement/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:12.362926+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
years of service and their salary prior to retirement. Pensions are much less common retirement options today than they were in years past. Check with your human resources department to see if your company offers pension plans. - 401(k). Unlike pensions, many employers today offer a 401(k) retirement savings plan. In 2022, you can contribute up to $20,500 of your pre-tax income to the plan if you're under age 50, and up to $27,000 if you're aged 50 and older. You may want to take advantage of a 401(k) plan, especially if your employer offers a matching contribution. The retirement income that results from employer contributions is essentially free money and can really add up over time. - Individual Retirement Account (IRA). An IRA is a retirement savings plan that allows you to contribute up to a maximum amount of money each year. In 2022, you can make combined contributions of up to $6,000 to one or more IRA accounts if you are under age 50, and up to $7,000 if you are aged 50 and older. Depending on your income and other circumstances, some or all of your contributions to an IRA may be tax-deductible. It's also important to note that there are several types of IRAs—including traditional, Roth and SEP—that each have different requirements and tax implications. You can open an IRA account with your bank or investment management firm, and the money you save will be available in the form of distributions once you reach age 72 (70-½ if you reach 70-½ before January 1, 2020). - Other income. You might also have other miscellaneous sources of income, such as brokerage accounts, traditional savings accounts and certificates of deposit. - Withdrawing money in retirement When determining how long your money will last in retirement, it's important to think about the rate at which you will withdraw your funds. Retirees should aim to find a safe withdrawal rate, meaning a percentage of your savings that you can withdraw each year of your retirement without running out of money. As with all retirement planning, the exact answer will vary from person to person. However, experts generally recommend withdrawing no more than 4% to 5% of your savings in the first year of retirement. In the years that follow, adjust your withdrawal amounts to account for external factors such as inflation or fluctuations in the stock market. Also, be sure to consider how your personal goals in retirement may affect the rate at which you withdraw money. For example, many people aim to travel or pick up a new hobby during retirement. If your intent is to travel while you're still in good physical health, you might choose to withdraw more in the years shortly after you retire and reduce that amount as your travel tapers off. How can you better prepare for retirement? Your retirement plan will continue to evolve along with your career, so be sure to keep tabs on your progress. If you're unsure of where you stand or find yourself falling behind your savings goals, consider these strategies to help keep your retirement savings on track: Build your savings steadily and stay up to date on your progress. Saving for retirement is a marathon, not a sprint. If you aren't saving money already, it's important to start as soon as possible to give your savings time to grow. If you are saving, be sure that you monitor your progress so that you can stay on track. - Take advantage of employer-sponsored retirement plans. Employer-sponsored retirement benefits such as 401(k) matching can be powerful savings tools. If you have access to a 401(k) account, be sure to take full advantage of employer contributions and other benefits. - Make a list of your goals for retirement and the funds needed to get you there. When are you hoping
