---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/trading-4427765
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:05.915014+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Get expert advice on finding the right broker, learn to trade stocks, and understand how to evaluate the markets. If you're looking to invest and trade stocks for the long term, then one of the best online brokers is all you need. But if you're looking to day trade, you'll want to do your research and find a platform that fits your trading style best. Investopedia identified 26 trading platforms and then collected over 2,300 data points to determine which are the best for day traders. The best day trading platforms that made our list provide excellent apps for analyzing indicators and executing trades on a variety of securities including stocks, cryptocurrency, options, forex, futures, and more. Our editors independently research and recommend the best products and services. You can learn more about our independent review process and partners in our advertiser disclosure . We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links. Investing takes a long-term approach to the markets, while trading involves short-term strategies to maximize returns daily, monthly, or quarterly. Investors are more likely to ride out short-term losses, while traders will make transactions that can help them profit quickly from fluctuating markets. How much money you need to begin trading depends on the type of securities you want to buy. Stocks typically trade in round lots, or orders of at least 100 shares. To buy a stock priced at $60 per share, you will need $6,000 in your account. A broker may let you borrow half of that money, but you still need to produce the other $3,000. To trade options and futures, those trade by the contract. A contract represents some unit of the underlying security. In the options market, one contract is good for 100 shares of the stock. Results vary widely depending on various trading strategies, risk management practices, and amounts of capital available for day trading. According to University of California researchers Brad Barber and Terrance Odean, they found that many individual investors hold undiversified portfolios and trade actively, speculatively, and to their own detriment.1 Day traders also can be hit with high brokerage fees and other charges that cut into their profits. The prices of shares on a stock market can be set in a number of ways. The most common way is through an auction process where buyers and sellers place bids and offers to buy or sell. A bid is the price at which somebody wishes to buy, and an offer (or ask) is the price at which somebody wishes to sell. When the bid and ask coincide, a trade is made. Options allow for potential profit during both volatile times, which is possible because the prices of assets like stocks, currencies, and commodities are always moving. No matter what the market conditions are there is an options strategy that can take advantage of those conditions to profit, while taking on the risk of losing money as well. A penny stock refers to a small company's stock that typically trades for less than $5 per share. Although some penny stocks trade on large exchanges such as the NYSE, most penny stocks trade over the counter through the OTC Bulletin Board. The Cboe Volatility Index, or VIX, is a real-time market index representing the market’s expectations for volatility over the coming 30 days. Investors use the VIX to measure the level of risk, fear, or stress in the market when making investment decisions. A price target is an analyst's projection of a security's future price, one at which an analyst believes a stock is fairly valued. A short position is a trading technique used by investors who anticipate a security will fall in price. In common practice, short sellers borrow shares of stock from an investment bank or other financial institution, paying a fee to borrow the shares
