---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
as provided in subsections (a)(2) and (b)(2) of section 605A, as applicable. (e) Other charges prohibited. A consumer reporting agency shall not impose any charge on a consumer for providing any notification required by this title or making any disclosure required by this title, except as authorized by subsection (f). (f) Reasonable Charges Allowed for Certain Disclosures (1) In general. In the case of a request from a consumer other than a request that is covered by any of subsections (a) through (d), a consumer reporting agency may impose a reasonable charge on a consumer (A) for making a disclosure to the consumer pursuant to section 609 [§ 1681g], which charge (i) shall not exceed $8;8 and (ii) shall be indicated to the consumer before making the disclosure; and (B) for furnishing, pursuant to 611(d) [§ 1681i], following a reinvestigation under section 611(a) [§ 1681i], a statement, codification, or summary to a person designated by the consumer under that section after the 30-day period beginning on the date of notification of the consumer under paragraph (6) 8 Pursuant to Section 612(f)(2), the Federal Trade Commission set the maximum charge at $11.00, effective January 1, 2011. See 75 Fed. Reg. 80817 (Dec. 23, 2010). The Bureau will set the charge for 2012 and later years. § 613 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681k 69 or (8) of section 611(a) [§ 1681i] with respect to the reinvestigation, which charge (i) shall not exceed the charge that the agency would impose on each designated recipient for a consumer report; and (ii) shall be indicated to the consumer before furnishing such information. (2) Modification of amount. The Bureau shall increase the amount referred to in paragraph (1)(A)(i) on January 1 of each year, based proportionally on changes in the Consumer Price Index, with fractional changes rounded to the nearest fifty cents.8 (g) Prevention of Deceptive Marketing of Credit Reports (1) In general. Subject to rulemaking pursuant to section 205(b) of the Credit CARD Act of 2009, any advertisement for a free credit report in any medium shall prominently disclose in such advertise - ment that free credit reports are available under Federal law at AnnualCreditReport.com (or such other source as may be authorized under Federal law). (2) Television and radio advertisement. In the case of an advertisement broadcast by television, the disclosures required under paragraph (1) shall be included in the audio and visual part of such advertisement. In the case of an advertisement broadcast by television or radio, the disclosure required under paragraph (1) shall consist only of the following: “This is not the free credit report provided for by Federal law.” § 613. Public record information for employment purposes [15 U.S.C. § 1681k] (a) In general . A consumer reporting agency which furnishes a consumer report for employment purposes and which for that purpose compiles and reports items of information on consumers which are matters of public record and are likely to have an adverse effect upon a consumer’s ability to obtain employment shall (1) at the time such public record information is reported to the user of such consumer report, notify the consumer of the fact that public record information is being reported by the consumer reporting agency, together with the name and address of the person to whom such information is being reported; or (2) maintain strict procedures designed to insure that whenever public record information which is likely to have an adverse effect on a 70§ 615 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681m consumer’s ability to obtain employment is reported it is complete and up to date. For purposes of this paragraph, items of public record relating to arrests, indictments, convictions, suits, tax liens, and outstanding judgments shall be considered up to date if the current public record status of the item at the time of the report is reported. (b)
