---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/9-ways-to-stay-safe-on-social-media/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:51.508607+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:51 GMT
---
friends" to extend their fake networks. The fake account may use photos from your friend's real account to trick you as well. Facebook has a provision for reporting these impostors that automatically notifies the friend who's being impersonated as part of the process. - On Twitter and Instagram, impersonated persons have to report phony accounts themselves, so message your followers to let them know they're being misrepresented. - 5. Don't Use Social Credentials to Sign Into Third-Party Sites Many third-party websites give you the option of registering using Facebook, Google or Twitter credentials instead of setting up new usernames and passwords. These shortcuts are tempting, especially when you're eager to place an order or join a discussion, but think twice. By using this option, you may be giving the new site more information than you need to. Worse, if someone hijacks your social login information, they can gain access to these third-party accounts as well. If you've enabled access to third party sites in Facebook, you can review the sites that are logged in automatically by clicking "Apps" on the left side of the Settings page. - You can shut off integration apps individually, or you can disable all integration with third-party sites and applications by changing a single setting. - 6. Avoid Quizzes and Games That Require Access to Profile Information "Fun" quizzes that promise to spot your perfect mate, assemble a bank-heist team, or test your hometown loyalty are often just information-siphoning schemes. While assuring you they won't post to your feed without permission, they woo you into surrendering your profile info and friends. They can use this info to build lists for spammers. 7. Handle Passwords With Care Don't store passwords in your web browser because if your phone or laptop is stolen, saved passwords can provide access to social accounts, shopping sites, and your emailâall of which likely contain loads of information an identity thief could use. Another alternative is to password protect your computer. Switch up your social media passwords immediately if there's a chance you're the victim of a data breach or if you determine your personal information is on the dark web. Use different passwords for each account site, and make sure they're strong. - Ditch the sticky notes and index cards and upgrade to a better password management system. The helpful (and free) password manager, Dashlane works on Windows, Mac OS, iOS and Android. It encrypts and stores all your passwords (except its own), and lets you enter and submit them with a click. - 8. Consider Identity Theft Protection If you're concerned that your personal data may have been compromised, consider using an identity-theft protection product to alert you to instances of abuse. 9. If You Have Kids, Pay Attention to Their Accounts as Well If, and when your kids use social media, you'll want to make sure you're protecting them while on social networks. Criminals can prey on them, and if their privacy and security settings aren't locked down, it can put their safety and personal information at risk. Read more here about protecting your child on social media. As in any group setting, you'll find folks of every stripe on social media, from friends to trolls to criminals. Good relationships are what keep us coming back, but it's a mistake to ignore or underestimate the wrongdoers. By staying alert and adopting a few smart practices, you can socialize safely and keep your personal information private. Monitor your credit for free Credit monitoring can help you detect possible identity fraud, and can prevent surprises when you apply for credit. Get daily notifications when changes are detected. Get free monitoringAbout the author Jim Akin is freelance writer based in Connecticut. With experience as both a journalist and a marketing professional, his most recent focus has been in the area of consumer
