---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/protection/identity-theft-and-credit-protection/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:53.521578+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 21:35:43 GMT
---
Protect your identity and personal information Get advanced alerting, credit monitoring and fraud resolution that includes up to $1 million ID theft insurance.â» Free for 7 days, then just $24.99 /monthâ Protect your personal info Find out if your phone number, email or addresses are exposed online. Real-time alerts Get notified of suspicious activity using your personal information. Identity theft insurance Increase your peace of mind with up to $1 million in coverage. Protect your identity and personal information Why get identity theft protection with Experian? Track any changes made to your credit reports across the three bureaus. Find and get help removing your personal information from people finder sites. Easily lock and unlock your Experian credit file with the push of a button. What can you do with Experian identity theft protection? SSN monitoring Get alerts to aliases or addresses associated with your Social Security number. Financial account activity Detect attempts to take over your account or open a new account using your data. Dark web surveillance Daily scans of over 600,000 web pages to detect if your data is stolen. 3-Bureau credit monitoring Detect changes across all three credit bureaus â Experian, TransUnionÂ®, and EquifaxÂ®. Change of address alerts Know if your mail has been redirected through the U.S. Postal Service. Court records Know if crimes are falsely attached to your name in the court system. Sex offender alerts Be notified if a registered sex offender moves into your neighborhood. Payday & non-credit loan alerts Detect fraudulent attempts to apply for payday and other non-credit loans in your name. Frequently asked questions Identity theft is when someone steals your personal information and uses it to impersonate you, steal your money, open new credit, receive medical care, hijack your government benefits or commit other acts of fraud. Identity theft is a common crime, with some experts estimating a case of identity theft occurring every 22 seconds. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) received more than $1 million reports of identity theft in 2023, and 2024âs numbers are expected to be higher. There are many differentÂ types of identity theft, including: Identity theft is a constant threat. While you may not be able to completely eliminate the risk that youâll be targeted, taking preventative measures can help youÂ protect yourself from identity theft. Identity theft happens when someone illegally accesses and uses a victimâs sensitive information. For instance, a criminal may use stolen information to open new financial accounts, take over existing ones, obtain medical services or steal government benefits. There are a number of different ways that identity thieves illegally access victimâs data, including: Data breaches: AÂ data breach is a security event that results in unauthorized access to or disclosure of sensitive information. Data breaches may expose consumerâs personal data, such as Social Security numbers, passwords and banking information. They can also lead to widespread exposure of corporate data, exposing customer records or other sensitive company information. If your information is exposed in a data breach, criminals may seek to obtain the data and use it to commit identity theft. - Phishing: In aÂ phishing attack, a criminal uses social engineering tactics to trick you into providing them with sensitive information. They may then use your data to defraud you for money or impersonate you, opening new credit in your name or taking over your accounts. The best defense against phishing is to know the red flags and be very skeptical of anyone who contacts you asking you to click links or provide personal data. - Unsecure internet browsing: Using an unsecured, public Wi-Fi can open you up to hackers, who may be able to intercept data transmitted over unencrypted networks. You should avoid logging into accounts or performing sensitive activities, such as an online banking, if youâre on a public internet connection. If you do need to browse
