---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-the-easiest-credit-card-to-get-with-no-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:37.687382+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:28 GMT
---
a few purchases. Consider using your card infrequently or making multiple payments throughout the month to keep your utilization rate low. - Always pay on time. Your payment history is the most important factor in your credit score, so it's imperative that you always pay your bill on time. If you miss a payment by 30 days or more, it could cause significant, lasting damage to your credit score. To ensure on-time payment, consider setting up autopay on your account. If you'd rather pay manually, set up an alert for your due date. - Keep the account active. While you may think that not using your credit card is a good thing, the card issuer may choose to close the account if you stop using it. Each issuer has its own criteria for what counts as an inactive account, but it's generally best to use your card at least once every six months. If you don't plan on using it regularly and don't want to make occasional purchases, consider putting one of your monthly subscriptions on the card and paying it off every month. - Weigh Your Options Being new to credit can limit your options, but the good news is that many credit card issuers are willing to work with people who are building credit for the first time. Take your time to research and compare options based on your credit situation. In addition to deposit requirements, you may also consider other features, such as fees, rewards, interest rates and benefits to make sure you're getting the best card possible for your needs. As you work to build your credit history, Experian Goâ¢ can help you by providing you with free access to your FICOÂ® ScoreÎ and Experian credit report, along with insights and tools that can help you practice good credit habits. It can also make it easier to track your progress over time and address potential problems if they arise. Looking to build credit? Discover secured credit card offers matched to you, so you can apply with confidence. Get started with your FICOÂ® Score for free. See your offersAbout the author Ben Luthi has worked in financial planning, banking and auto finance, and writes about all aspects of money. His work has appeared in Time, Success, USA Today, Credit Karma, NerdWallet, Wirecutter and more. Read more from Ben
