---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-debt-consolidation/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:38.673726+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:20 GMT
---
What Is Debt Consolidation and How Does It Work? Quick Answer Debt consolidation involves paying off one or more existing debts with a new loan or credit card, preferably with a lower interest rate. With the right approach, debt consolidation can save you both time and money as you tackle your consumer debt. Debt consolidation is the process of paying off one or more debts with a new loan or credit card. If you're combining multiple debts into one, the process can simplify your debt repayment plan. Additionally, you may be able to take advantage of a lower interest rate, a more favorable repayment plan and a shorter payoff timeline. Here's what you need to know about debt consolidation. How Does Debt Consolidation Work? Consolidating debt typically involves combining multiple balances into one, usually with a new loan or credit card that offers a lower interest rate and other favorable terms. However, it's also possible to consolidate a single balance. When taking out a consolidation loan, you'll typically borrow enough to cover the balances you want to consolidate. Then, once you receive the loan proceeds, you'll use them to pay off your other debts. In some cases, lenders may even be willing to pay off your balances directly. With a credit card, you'll usually request a balance transfer with your new card issuer, who will pay off your included balances directly. As you consider your debt consolidation options, here are some of the most popular methods and how they differ: Personal Loan | Balance Transfer Credit Card | Home Equity Loan | Home Equity Loan of Credit | ---|---|---|---| Interest rates | 7%-36% | Introductory 0% APR for 12 to 21 months, then 15%-29% | 7%-13% | 7%-18% | ---|---|---|---|---| Upfront costs | Origination fee ranging from 0%-12% | Balance transfer fee ranging from 3%-5% | Closing costs ranging from 2%-5% | Closing costs ranging from 2%-5% | ---|---|---|---|---| Repayment terms | 1-7 years | No set repayment term | Up to 30 years | Draw period of up to 10 years; repayment period of up to 20 years | ---|---|---|---|---| Collateral required | No | No | Yes | Yes | ---|---|---|---|---| Credit score requirement | Generally good credit or better | Generally good credit or better | 680 or higher is preferred | 680 or higher is preferred | ---|---|---|---|---| Balance Transfer Credit Card A balance transfer credit card is a type of credit card that offers an introductory 0% annual percentage rate (APR) promotion, which could last up to 21 months. During this time, you can pay down debt transferred from another credit cardâsome even allow you to consolidate certain types of loansâwithout paying any interest. Some of the best balance transfer credit cards also offer welcome bonuses, rewards and other perks. That said, balance transfer credit cards typically charge an upfront fee of 3% to 5% of the transfer amount. You may also have a deadline by which you need to request the transfer after opening the account to qualify for the 0% intro APR promotion. Finally, you won't find out what your new card's credit limit is until you're approved. Depending on how much debt you have, it may not be sufficient to cover your full balance. Learn more: Balance Transfer Credit Card Mistakes to Avoid Debt Consolidation Loan A debt consolidation loan is a personal loan you can use to pay off credit cards, medical bills and other types of debt. Personal loans don't offer a 0% APR promotion, but if you have good or excellent credit, you may be able to get approved for a lower interest rate than what you're currently payingâespecially if you're trying to consolidate credit card debt. Additionally, personal loans offer a fixed repayment schedule, which can range from one to seven years in most cases. This feature can
