---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/enforcement/premerger-notification-program
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:53:38.459655+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 09 Feb 2026 07:53:35 GMT
---
a transaction in which SmithCo is the Acquiring Person and Jefferson Inc. is the Acquired Person. “SmithCo-Jefferson Inc. - B - 04-19-25 - WASHINGTON” would identify the filing on behalf of Jefferson Inc., submitted by attorney Washington on 4/19/2025, in connection with same transaction. (06/04/25) - A new Tip Sheet for NAICS Codes Reporting is available on the HSR Forms, Instructions, and Guidance page. (05/15/25) - The PNO has updated the Withdraw/Refile Procedure Tip Sheet to provide guidance for the current version of the HSR Form. (05/12/25) - The PNO has updated the corrective filings page to provide guidance for post-consummation filings using the updated HSR Form. (03/24/25). - We have updated the HSR Form Changes Q&A page to address new questions. (03/20/25) - Filers will no longer need to break up large filings into multiple submissions. The Premerger Kiteworks portal can handle a single filing with as many attachments as necessary. Going forward, please send filings in one submission. If you encounter any issues, please contact premerger@ftc.gov. (03/07/25) - We have updated the example filings to clarify guidance, including related to document numbering, the inclusion of the affidavit as part of the Form, NAICS code descriptions, and the organization of responses in particular sections. (03/05/25) - Now that the updated Form is effective, the PNO will answer all questions through HSRHelp@ftc.gov. If you have a question about the requirements of the updated Form or other substantive questions about filing, please send an email with your question, including all relevant facts and your proposed conclusion, to HSRHelp@ftc.gov. (03/03/25) - NOTICE: The 2025 filing fees and jurisdictional thresholds are now in effect. (02/21/25) - Please see our new blog post on the 2025 HSR thresholds and filing fees, which will become effective on February 21, 2025. (02/06/25) - Additional guidance is now posted on the Form Changes page. Three questions (003, 004, 005) have been added to Questions Asked/Questions Answered. We have also provided two sample filings (Acquiring and Acquired) as an example of how to fill out the new forms. As the PNO will be posting additional guidance on the Form Changes page as the effective date of the new HSR Form approaches, please check the updates frequently, including the HSR Form Changes Q&A, before you send us questions. (01/27/2025) - The PNO has updated the Acquiring and Acquired HSR Forms (effective Feb. 10, 2025) to correct some formatting issues. There are no substantive changes to the forms, so filers may use the new versions or continue to use the previously posted ones. See also the new Tip Sheet for working with the Word files of the HSR Forms. (01/17/25) - The PNO has added a new guidance document, HSR Filing Attachment Reference, to the Form Changes page to assist in preparing new HSR filings for the Feb. 10, 2025 effective date. (01/16/25) - The PNO has posted the first Questions Asked and Questions Answered from questions received at HSRRuleReview@ftc.gov. This document will be updated as more questions are received. (01/15/25) - The PNO has added a new guidance document, Cross Reference and New Requirements Tables, to the Form Changes page to assist in preparing new HSR filings for the Feb. 10, 2025 effective date. (01/07/25) - IMPORTANT NOTICE: The PNO has posted a new guide, 2025 HSR Form Updates: What Filers Need to Know. This guide is meant to start a dialogue around questions related to the new HSR form changes. The PNO invites HSR practitioners to submit questions of broad applicability to HSRRuleReview@ftc.gov. Staff will review these questions and post answers on the Form Changes page. (01/03/25) - NOTICE: Per executive order, the Federal government is closed on Thursday, January 9, 2025. The PNO will not be open to accept filings. Waiting periods that expire on Jan. 9 will not be affected. (01/03/25) - NOTICE: Per executive order,
