---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/compliance/registration-and-submission-programs/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:23.511990+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Registration and submission programs Certain entities are required by regulation to register or submit information to us. Prepaid account agreements The Prepaid Rule requires prepaid account issuers to submit their prepaid account agreements to us. Issuers must make a submission whenever a new agreement is offered, a previously submitted agreement is amended, or a previously submitted agreement is no longer offered. Credit card agreements We maintain a database of credit card agreements from more than 300 card issuers. Using the database, you can search for an agreement by the name of the issuer; some full-text searching is available. Instructions for issuers on submitting credit card agreements Read more about credit card agreements College credit card marketing agreements We collect information annually from credit card issuers who have marketing agreements with universities, colleges, or affiliated organizations such as alumni associations, sororities, fraternities, and foundations. We publish annual reports to Congress, and we maintain publicly accessible files of the agreements. Instructions for issuers on submitting college credit card agreements Form for submitting marketing agreements Learn more about the college credit card reports and data Terms of credit card plans (TCCP) survey We semiannually survey the terms of credit card plans offered by credit card issuers and publish reports of the findings—a collection commonly referred to as the TCCP Survey. Issuers selected for the TCCP Survey can now use Collect, the Bureau’s new online channel for TCCP submissions. Review the data and access resources for submitting the TCCP Survey The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act HMDA requires many financial institutions to maintain, report, and publicly disclose information about mortgages. Beginning with HMDA data collected in or after 2017, financial institutions will use the HMDA Platform to upload their loan/application registers (LARs), review edits, certify the accuracy and completeness of the data, and submit data for the filing year. Access the HMDA Filing Platform Small business lending Pursuant to section 1071 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the small business lending data collection rule requires covered financial institutions and voluntary reporters to maintain, report, and publicly disclose information about small business lending. The beta for the Small Business Lending Data Filing Platform is now available. Financial institutions and their technology partners are invited to test the platform and share feedback on their experience. Interstate land sales registration program The Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act (ILSA) requires a developer of a subdivision containing one hundred or more nonexempt lots to register its subdivision with the Bureau. The developer must also provide lot purchasers with a disclosure statement known as a property report before a sales contract is signed. ILSA Registration resources Electronic Filing Instructions (pursuant to 12 CFR 1010.20(a)) Electronic Payment Instructions (pursuant to 12 CFR 1010.35(a)(1)(ii) Related links Interstate Land Sales Registration Program Office For issues or questions regarding ILSA registration contact the Interstate Land Sales Registration Program Office. Direct any FOIA requests to our FOIA office. Nonbank registration The Nonbank Registration Regulation prescribes rules governing the registration of nonbanks, and the collection and submission of registration information by such persons, and for public release of the collected information as appropriate. On June 3, 2024, the Bureau issued the Registry of Nonbank Covered Persons Subject to Certain Agency and Court Orders Final Rule (also referred to as the NBR Orders Rule), codified at 12 CFR Part 1092, which establishes a registry of certain nonbanks that are subject to certain public agency and court orders. Page last modified @
