---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-protect-yourself-from-identity-theft/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:21.387635+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:49 GMT
---
11 Ways to Protect Yourself From Identity Theft Quick Answer You can better protect yourself from identity theft by taking steps such as: Protecting your devices with strong passwords - Using a password manager - Keeping an eye on your credit reports - Being cautious about information you share on social media - Every year, more than a million Americans report being victimized by identity theft. This crime occurs when somebody nabs your personal or financial information without your permission, and potentially uses it to make purchases or open accounts in your name. Fortunately, you can take steps to help avoid identity theft. Let's go over 11 ways you can better protect yourself from identity theft. 1. Password-Protect Your Devices A small but worrisome number of smartphone owners in the U.S. (16%) say they never use a security feature to unlock their phone, such as a passcode, fingerprint or facial recognition, according to 2023 data from the Pew Research Center. If you're part of this group, you might want to reconsider your security measures. Failing to protect your smartphone, tablet or other electronic device puts your personal and financial data at risk. This data might include passwords and banking information, for example. 2. Use a Password Manager A 2022 poll commissioned by Google found that nearly two-thirds (65%) of U.S. adults reuse passwords for different online accounts. Using the same password for electronic devices and financial accounts puts your information at greater risk. In fact, all it might take is guessing just one password for a fraudster to access some or all of your accounts. To track what should be a unique password for every online account, try using a password manager like LastPass or 1Password. These and other password managers let you securely store passwords without needing to recall all of your login credentials. 3. Don't Carry Your Social Security Card The nine digits that make up your Social Security number can open the door to identity theft if they fall into the wrong hands. To avoid theft, keep your Social Security card in a safe place at home rather than stashing it in your wallet. If your card is stolen, an identity thief might do some serious damage, such as using your Social Security number to apply for credit in your name. 4. Protect Your Personal Documents Paper documents are a goldmine that could allow a fraudster to steal valuable personal or financial information. Don't make it easier for them to access your paper documents. Here are several ways to safeguard your documents: Shred documents that contain personal data, financial data or both. This includes bank statements, credit card statements and bills. - Don't let mail pile up in your mailbox. Mailboxes are frequent targets of identity thieves. If you're going out of town, put a hold on mail deliveries during the time you'll be away or ask a trusted neighbor to fetch your mail. - Sign up for electronic statements from financial institutions. This means you won't be receiving sensitive paper documents from credit card companies, banks and other companies that are enticing to fraudsters. - 5. Watch Out for Phishing Attempts In a phishing attempt, a cyber thief is hunting for personal or financial information that could help them steal your identity. Phishing attempts typically come in the form of emails or text messages. The goal: Make you click on a link or open an attachment that looks legitimate. For instance, an unexpected text might cause you to think a trusted company such as a credit card issuer is directing you to click on a link to handle an account issue. Once you click, however, you'll be asked to enter some personal information, such as a password or account number on an account a scammer controls. Once you submit your information, a scammer may be able
