---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/preventing-fraud/credit-card-fraud-what-to-do-if-you-are-a-victim/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:31.914029+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
What Is Credit Card Fraud? Quick Answer Credit card fraud is theft committed using a victimâs existing credit card account or stealing personal data to open a fake account. Methods used in credit card fraud include stealing cards, using stolen account information to create âcloneâ cards, and opening new accounts using personal information stolen in data breaches. Credit card fraud affects hundreds of thousands of Americans each year. While fraudsters are continually evolving their tactics to catch their victims unsuspecting, knowing what credit card fraud is and how it works can help you defend yourself. Here's what you need to know about this pervasive crime, and what you can do to avoid becoming a victim yourself. What Is Credit Card Fraud? Credit card fraud is the unauthorized use of a credit card account for purposes of stealing goods or money. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC), which tracks financial crimes nationwide, logged 426,038 complaints of credit card fraud in 2023. That's a 5% decline in the number of credit card fraud complaints year over year, down from 448,466 in 2022. Types of Credit Card Fraud The FTC distinguishes between two types of credit card fraud complaints: those involving new accounts and those involving existing accounts: New account fraud is when criminals establish a bogus credit card account in the victim's name, then make purchases or take cash advances that will never be repaid. New account scams accounted for 89% (381,164) of credit card fraud complaints in 2023, down from 91% (409,054) in 2022. - Existing account fraud encompasses theft or abuse of victims' physical credit cards or account numbers and account takeoverâuse of stolen credentials to change passwords and contact information to shut out the true owner of an account so it can be abused. The percentage of complaints related to existing accounts increased, from 9% in 2022 to 11% in 2023. - How Does Credit Card Fraud Happen? Credit card fraud can happen through a combination of criminal tactics. Here are six common ways credit fraud may occur: Card theft: Theft of a physical credit card, which may be used at ATMs to obtain cash advances or to buy gift cards or merchandise. - Skimmed card information: Abuse of account holder information captured with a "skimmer"âan innocuous-looking card scanner placed over the slot on the card reader at an ATM, gas pump or other self-serve kiosk, which steals card information as you make a legitimate transaction. - Cloned cards: Cloning a credit card entails stealing the personal information customarily stored in a card's magnetic stripe or embedded chip and then using that data to fabricate a card that works like the real thing. Crooks then run up your account balance quickly, disappear and leave you with the bill. - Bogus "card not present" transactions: Use of stolen card information to place orders online or by phoneâknown as card-not-present (CNP) transactionsâdon't require use of a physical card. - Data breaches: During a data breach, hackers can steal personal information, including names, addresses, dates of birth, passwords and credit card and Social Security numbers. Stolen data can enable crooks to set up bogus credit card accounts or hack into existing ones. Batches of this stolen data are often bought and sold on illicit exchanges found in the hidden dark web. - Phishing: Use of technology to trick victims into giving up personal information is another way criminals get data needed to open fake credit card accounts or take over existing ones. If crooks use email in this way, the tactic is called phishing; if SMS/text messages are employed, it's known as smishing; and if voice calls are used (often with the assistance of automated robo-dialers), the technique is known as vishing. - Regardless which medium is used, the approach is typically the same: A bogus message, disguised to look or sound like
