---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/personal-finance/articles/-/learn/comparing-new-vs-used-car-loans/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:44.962194+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
during the course of the loan and you are unable to keep up with payments, the lender can repossess the car to cover the remainder of what they're owed. If the car has not been accurately valued or no longer functions as it should, the lender may not fully recover their investment. Used cars can be great options for some borrowers, but it's important to understand that the interest rate and other loan terms may not be as favorable as those offered on new cars. Which kind of car is right for me? Is it better to finance a new car or a used one? The answer depends on your financial situation and what you're looking for in a new vehicle. Is it important that your car has the latest technology and features? Are you looking for peace of mind that your purchase will last for years to come? Then a new car may be the option for you. Are you shopping on a tight budget and looking to score a deal? Then finding the perfect used car may be the way to go. If you're in the market for a loan, you can also try applying for pre-qualification. This is a kind of screening process offered by lenders that lets you know if you're a likely candidate for a loan. Pre-qualification makes it easier to compare different loan options and to negotiate interest rates and other terms when you're finally ready to buy. For example, you might make a higher initial down payment in exchange for a lower interest rate. Or you might take on higher monthly payments to reduce the amount of interest you'll pay over time. As long as you're prepared and informed, there are ways to make financing your vehicle — whether new or used — affordable for you. Sign up for a credit monitoring & ID theft protection product today! For $19.95 per month, you can know where you stand with access to your 3-bureau credit report. Sign up for Equifax CompleteTM Premier today!
