---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/supct/cert/23-719
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:10:47.159006+00:00
last_updated: Wed, 14 Jan 2026 15:53:40 GMT
---
Griswold emphasizes that Colorado’s regulation applies equally to all candidates and parties. FEDERALISM AND ENFORCEMENT OF SECTION THREE Trump argues that, under Section Five of the Fourteenth Amendment, only Congress can enforce the Disqualification Clause. Trump asserts that his view is supported by Chief Justice Chase’s circuit court decision in In re Griffin, and Congress’ subsequent passage of the Enforcement Act of 1870. Trump maintains that, in the absence of easily discernible standards for states to determine whether a potential candidate has “engaged in insurrection,” disqualification by a state court is inappropriate. Trump also posits that Section Three cannot be used to remove him from the ballot because its text only forbids insurrectionists from holding office, not from running for office and being elected. Trump submits that the Colorado Supreme Court’s construction of the Colorado Election Code violates federal Supreme Court precedent by impermissibly modifying the Constitution’s eligibility requirements for the Presidency. Trump also claims that the Constitution bars the Colorado Supreme Court from deciding his case because the Electors Clause of the Constitution limits the ability of state courts to review election claims. Trump asserts that the Colorado Election Code only allows the state judiciary to decide election claims when an official is at risk of committing a “wrongful act.” Trump argues that the Colorado Supreme Court misinterpreted the Colorado Election Code, which only requires a political party to advance at least one qualified candidate, and thus that the court exceeded its authority. Trump maintains that he did not forfeit this argument in the lower court proceedings because he could not have foreseen how the Colorado Supreme Court would interpret the Electors Clause. Trump suggests that, when a state law issue is closely related to a question of federal constitutional law, the Supreme Court may overturn otherwise-binding state judicial interpretations of state law. Anderson argues that state courts may enforce their ballot access laws even if doing so requires interpreting Section Three. Anderson maintains that the Electors Clause allows states to condition an elector’s appointment on compliance with the constitutional requirements of the office. Anderson contends that, because states may bar candidates on the basis of disqualifying provisions, Colorado may bar Trump from the ballot. Anderson also argues that whether Section Three must be enforced by federal legislation is irrelevant because this case is about Colorado state law. Griswold adds that Trump forfeited the Electors Clause argument by failing to raise it in the lower court proceedings. Griswold urges that, even if Trump did not forfeit the argument, the Colorado Supreme Court’s decision did not violate the Electors Clause because Colorado’s legislature properly delegated authority to resolve election controversies to its courts. Griswold contends that Colorado did not attempt to avoid federal law and instead enforced the text of Section Three, as it was required to under the Colorado Election Code. Griswold emphasizes that the Colorado Supreme Court’s interpretation was “well within the bounds of ‘ordinary judicial review,’” since it relied on standard modes of statutory interpretation when analyzing the Constitution and Colorado’s statutes. Griswold asserts that a contrary decision would curtail Colorado’s sovereignty. Discussion DEMOCRATIC NORMS AND INSTITUTIONS Three former Attorneys General, two law professors, and Citizens United, in support of Trump, argue that upholding the Colorado Supreme Court would threaten “the Nation’s tradition of free and fair elections.” The Attorneys General, professors, and Citizens United predict that if state officials could unilaterally remove candidates from the ballot, then they would naturally do so against any political opponent, which would create chaos and accusations of “insurrection” in any contested election. Landmark Legal, in support of Trump, adds that private actors could also sue under the Colorado Supreme Court’s standard and underscores that such a result would “undermine public trust in the electoral system.” Six constitutional law scholars, in support of Anderson, warn that the Supreme Court must “vigorously
