---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/best-online-brokers-4587872
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:08:17.761941+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
your retirement goals. Conversely, trading involves short-term strategies that maximize returns on a short-term basis, such as daily or monthly. Trading is generally considered riskier than investing.All these factors are worth considering before choosing an online broker. Do you want to trade or invest? Do you want a great mobile app to check your portfolio wherever you are? What types of assets are you looking to invest in? Answering these questions is not always easy. For more support on how to choose a broker, you can check out our guide to choosing a stock broker. Once you've made a decision on a broker, you can refer to our guide to opening a brokerage account. Companies We Reviewed We researched and reviewed 27 online brokers and trading platforms to find the best companies you see in the list above. Below is the full list of companies we researched along with links to individual company reviews to help you learn more before making a decision:Ally Invest, Charles Schwab, ChoiceTrade, E*TRADE, eOption, eToro, Fidelity, Interactive Brokers, J.P. Morgan SDI, Lightspeed, Lime Financial, Merrill Edge, Public, Robinhood, SoFi Invest, SogoTrade, T. Rowe Price, tastytrade, TradeStation, Tradier, TradeZero, Vanguard, Webull, Wellstrade How to Pick a Broker That's Right for You How We Picked the Best Online Brokers and Trading Platforms Providing readers with unbiased, comprehensive reviews of online brokers and trading platforms is a top priority for Investopedia. We combined our industry research and subject matter expertise to guide the research and weightings for our 2025 online broker rankings. To collect the data, our researchers collected data points through online research of provider websites. To fill in any gaps, our research team reached out to the individual brokerages. In some instances, our researchers did much deeper online research to get the information they needed to complete the data collection. The data collection process spanned from Dec. 20, 2024 to Feb 19, 2025. We then developed a proprietary model that scored each company to rate its performance across 11 major categories and 120 criteria to find the best online brokers and trading platforms. The score for each company’s overall star rating is a weighted average of the criteria in the following categories: Online Broker Evaluation Categories Category Weight Research Amenities 12.78% Trading Technology 11.86% Range of Offerings 11.59% Trade Experience 10.12% Costs 10.00% Educational Material 8.95% Mobile App Usability 8.93% Portfolio Analysis and Reports 7.67% Customer Service 6.98% Account Amenities 6.16% Through this all-encompassing data collection and review process, Investopedia has provided you with an unbiased and thorough review of the top online brokers and trading platforms. For more information, read our full methodology explanation. Guide to Online Brokers and Trading Platforms Learn more about online brokers and trading platforms: How to Choose a Broker How to Buy Dividend Stocks How to Open an Online Brokerage Account How to Open a Swing Trade Account Broker vs. Market Maker: What's the Difference? Why Do Brokers Ask for Personal Information? How Much Money Do You Need to Start Trading? How to Buy and Sell Stocks for Your Account How to Trade 0DTE Options How Long Does it Take for Brokers to Confirm a Trade? How to Buy Fractional Shares How to Trade Options How to Invest Online Investopedia’s Online Broker Review Methodology Disclosures Investing involves risk, including risk of loss**$0.00 commission applies to online U.S. equity trades, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and options (+ $0.65 per contract fee) in a Fidelity retail account only for Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC retail clients. Sell orders are subject to an activity assessment fee (historically from $0.01 to $0.03 per $1,000 of principal). A limited number of ETFs are subject to a transaction-based service fee of $100. See full list of ETFs subject to this service fee [here]. There is an Options Regulatory Fee that applies to both option buy and sell transactions.
