---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/identity-theft/articles/-/learn/what-is-phishing-what-is-smishing/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:03.551163+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
to be from a reputable business. These messages may contain a link that attempts to bait you into clicking it and entering sensitive personal information, such as login details for a secure account or other personal data. Smishers may try to sell the information they gather from you to other scammers, or entice you to download malware onto your smart device. How to identify a smishing attack Smishing has become prevalent as people increasingly use their mobile phones for text messaging and other services like mobile shopping and banking. Since smishing is still relatively new compared to email scams, it catches many mobile users off guard. Here are a few warning signs that can help you identify a smishing attack: The message asks you to click a link to verify personal information. - The message asks you to provide your personal information by calling or texting the number. - The message claims to be from a government agency. According to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), government bodies almost never initiate contact via phone or text. If they do provide text notifications or updates, they need your permission first, which typically requires you to sign up by entering your phone number on the official government website. - What do you do if you suspect a text message might be a smishing scam? Smishing texts are often disguised as fraud alerts or undelivered package notifications. For example, you may receive a text from an unknown number saying that a package could not be delivered. Or, some text messages say that you have a large purchase or suspicious payment on your bank account. Since many banks and package delivery services now provide text notifications, here's how you can identify potentially fraudulent messages: You did not make a recent purchase or request a package to be delivered. If a text message claims that your package has not been delivered or your bank is notifying you of some sort of fraud, check your order history and your bank accounts immediately. Since you need to sign up to receive text notifications from legitimate companies, you can validate any suspicious texts by confirming the contact information of the company the text is claiming to come from. - The text is coming from an unknown number. Legitimate companies typically send text notifications from only one number. If you are signed up for text notifications from your bank and you receive a message from a different number, check with your bank to confirm their contact information before responding to any message. - The text redirects you to a new link or asks you to call the number. Smishing scams often entice you to click on a link or call the number. That's when scammers can manipulate you into sharing your information. - To avoid a smishing attack and lower potential risk, never click on a link or respond with your financial or personal information. If you aren't sure whether the number is legitimate, independently verify the company's contact information via a simple web search. Don't respond to a suspicious message with “STOP” or “No” to avoid future text messages; it is safer to delete the message entirely rather than engage with a potential scammer. You can then block the number to avoid future attempts at contacting you. You should also report any potential smishing scams to the FCC and FTC. Sign up for a credit monitoring & ID theft protection product today! For $19.95 per month, you can know where you stand with access to your 3-bureau credit report. Sign up for Equifax CompleteTM Premier today!
