---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/legal-library/browse/advisory-opinions
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:55:30.330468+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 09 Feb 2026 07:55:27 GMT
---
Our staff issue advisory opinions to help clarify FTC rules and decisions regarding either competition or consumer protection issues, often in response to requests from businesses and industry groups. To find a specific opinion, use the filters on this page. Parties may request advice from our staff concerning proposed conduct. Displaying 1 - 20 of 387 Date Staff Opinion Letter to Beth Deisher Related to Marking of the Word "Copy" under the Hobby Protection Act (16 CFR Part 304). Date Staff Opinion Letter to Clark R. Silcox Related to Mercury Disclosure Requirements for Light Bulbs under the Energy Labeling Rule (16 C.F.R. Part 305). Date Staff Opinion Letter to Donald S. Stein, Esquire, Stating that Pürlin’s Recyclable Bedding is Not Covered by the Textile Act or the Commission’s Textile Rules (16 CFR 303). Date Letter From Markus H. Meier, Assistant Director, Health Care Division, Bureau of Competition, to Jennifer R. Bolster, Esq., Hancock Estabrook, LLP, Concerning Crouse Health Hospital's Proposal To Sell... Date Staff Opinion Letter Addressing Compliance With the Commission Decision and Order in In the Matter of Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Docket No. C-3952, and Copy of the Incoming Request Date Staff opinion letter clarifying Opinion 09-1 concerning the Telemarketing Sales Rule’s applicability to calls utilizing soundboarding technology Date Staff opinion letter related to energy representations for portable air conditioners. Date Provides compliance guidance to funeral directors prohibited by D.C. law from removals to a funeral home until a death from natural causes is pronounced by a physician. Date Confirms Opinion 15-1 requirement that Casket Price List must be provided before consumers view caskets, and addresses how funeral provider locations in storefronts, malls and mall kiosks may comply. Date This Commission Staff Advisory Opinion (1) explains that the Commission's Trade Regulation Rule Concerning Preservation of Consumers' Claims and Defenses, 16 C.F.R. § 433 (the Holder Rule) protects... Date Addresses why placing a consumer in the casket display room to wait to speak with a funeral director violates the funeral rule unless the consumer first has been shown a casket price list. Date Discusses whether statutory and catalog sales exemption from definition of telemarketing applies to seller that solicits inbound calls in response to mailed catalogs, but does not complete a sale... Date File Advises that pursuant to the Commission’s Energy Labeling Rule, 16 CFR 305, manufacturers may make dual-flush volume disclosures that are not specifically generated by the Department of Energy’s test procedure as long as the representations are not deceptive and otherwise comply with the provisions of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act. (174.16 KB) Date Addresses whether a group purchasing organization based prescription-drug program operated for the benefit of a group of non-profit schools, colleges, and universities would fall within the Non-Profit... File Staff Advisory Opinion Letter from Markus H. Meier, Assistant Director, Health Care Division, Bureau of Competition, to James L.S. Cobb, Esq., Wyrick Robbins Yates & Ponton LLP, Concerning Quest Analytics Group’s Proposal for a Group Purchasing Organization Based Prescription Drug Program (280.84 KB) Date Advises that, consistent with the Department of Energy (“DOE”) enforcement policy on new regional standards for furnaces, the FTC staff will not recommend enforcement action against manufacturers that...
