---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/faqs/experian-document-upload-service/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:07.051026+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
Experianâs Document Upload Service If you have a document you would like to submit to Experian, you can use our secure document upload service. Please note: The secure document upload service is used to provide additional documentation to support your pending request. Initial dispute requests should not be submitted using this platform. To submit a dispute online, visit Experian.com/disputes. Frequently Asked Questions What documents should I submit to prove my identity or address in order to get a copy of my credit report? One copy of a government-issued identification card, such as a driver's license or state ID card - One copy of a current utility bill or bank or insurance statement. - Please be sure to provide: Your full name, including middle initial; also your generation, if applicable, such as Jr., Sr., III, etc. - Social Security number - Complete addresses for the past two years - Date of birth - Make sure that each copy is legible and displays your name, current mailing address and the date of issue. Experian cannot accept voided checks, lease agreements, magazine subscriptions or postal service forwarding orders as proof. To protect your personal identification information, Experian doesn't return correspondence sent to us. Send copies of any documents you wish to provide to us, and always retain your original documents. What type of documents can I provide to support my dispute? Any document that you feel proves your claim, such as a canceled check, a letter from your creditor, a billing statement, a court or county recorder document, bankruptcy dismissal or discharge papers, letter from the IRS and the like. Why did you tell me I have to mail you my documents? The system asks consumers to mail their documents when an issue has occurred that prevents upload. Some of the issues that prevent upload are: Document is not in a .tiff or .pdf format - Documents exceed our system's size limit (15 MB for all documents uploaded in a session) - Document appears to contain a virus - The .pdf format is not working; please convert to a .tiff - I have more than 5 documents to send you, but you only allow me to upload 5. What should I do? You can provide additional documents by mail or by returning to experian.com/upload and initiating a new session. You require me to enter the reason for submitting my documents, but I don't see my reason on your list. Use the "Other" reason, and provide an explanation in the "Tell us more" field. I don't have enough room to explain my reason for sending my document in the "Tell us more" box. The "tell us more" box allows up to 1,000 characters. If you need to provide a more extensive explanation, we suggest that you call or write to us, or include the explanation on the document that you upload. Why do I need to type characters from a picture before I give you my personal information? Typing the characters from a picture helps ensure that a person - not an automated program - is completing the form. This step helps prevent anyone else from downloading your personal information. What is a .tiff? A tiff file, or tif file, stands for Tagged Image File Format. Tif files are a common file format for images, especially those used on graphic design. The file extension for a tiff file is either .tiff or .tif. What is a .pdf? A pdf file stands for Portable Document File format. It is a widely used document format that is designed to distribute official documents online. A pdf file preserves the margins, fonts, page breaks, and formatting of an official document so that it prints identically on any kind of printer or computer. How do I convert my document to a .pdf? On most computers and with most common
