---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/can-i-get-an-emergency-loan-with-bad-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:21.147358+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:59 GMT
---
your cash reserves. Here are some steps you can take to create your emergency fund: Set a goal. Financial experts recommend working toward having three to six months' worth of basic expenses saved, but it could take several years to accomplish that goal. Instead, start with a more reasonable goal that you can achieve within the next year or so based on your ability to save. - Make room in your budget. If you don't already have one, take steps to create a budget by detailing your income and expenses over the past few months. Then, categorize your expenses, so you'll have a better idea of where your money is going. From there, you can identify areas where you can cut back and make more room for savings. - Automate your savings. Once you've set a goal and determined how much you can save each month, set up automatic transfers from your checking account to ensure you don't accidentally spend the money earmarked for emergencies. - Look for other saving opportunities. As you get used to saving money regularly, look for other ways you can build up your short-term savings. For example, you could set aside a portion of your annual tax return or your performance bonuses at work, or you can look for other ways to cut back on expenses, such as splitting streaming subscriptions or shopping around for cheaper car insurance. - Learn more: Tips to Boost Your Emergency Fund Frequently Asked Questions Focus on Preparing for Future Emergencies You may not have the energy right now to focus on anything but your current situation. But as you address your financial needs, look for opportunities to start preparing for future financial storms by building an emergency fund and improving your credit score. With Experian's free credit monitoring service, you can identify areas to work on and track your progress. You'll also get real-time alerts when changes are made to your report, making it easier to spot and handle potential issues as they arise. Need a loan? Whether you're shopping for a car or facing a last-minute expense, compare loan offers matched to your credit profile. Start now for freeAbout the author Ben Luthi has worked in financial planning, banking and auto finance, and writes about all aspects of money. His work has appeared in Time, Success, USA Today, Credit Karma, NerdWallet, Wirecutter and more. Read more from Ben
