---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/051915/how-does-insurance-sector-work.asp
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:35.659405+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
to high exposure. Reinsurance is an integral component of insurance companies' efforts to keep themselves solvent and to avoid default due to payouts, and regulators mandate it for companies of a certain size and type. For example, an insurance company may write too much hurricane insurance, based on models that show low chances of a hurricane inflicting a geographic area. If the inconceivable did happen with a hurricane hitting that region, considerable losses for the insurance company could ensue. Without reinsurance taking some of the risks off the table, insurance companies could go out of business whenever a natural disaster hits. Investopedia / Hilary Allison Comparing Mutual and Stock Insurance Companies Insurance companies are classified as either stock or mutual depending on the ownership structure of the organization. There are also some exceptions, such as Blue Cross Blue Shield and fraternal groups which have yet a different structure. Still, stock and mutual companies are by far the most prevalent ways that insurance companies organize themselves. A stock insurance company is a corporation owned by its stockholders or shareholders, and its objective is to make a profit for them. Policyholders do not directly share in the profits or losses of the company. To operate as a stock corporation, an insurer must have a minimum of capital and surplus on hand before receiving approval from state regulators. Other requirements must also be met if the company's shares are publicly traded. Some well-known American stock insurers include Allstate, MetLife, and Prudential. A mutual insurance company is a corporation owned exclusively by the policyholders who are "contractual creditors" with a right to vote on the board of directors. Generally, companies are managed and assets (insurance reserves, surplus, contingency funds, dividends) are held for the benefit and protection of the policyholders and their beneficiaries. Management and the board of directors determine what amount of operating income is paid out each year as a dividend to the policyholders. While not guaranteed, there are companies that have paid a dividend every year, even in difficult economic times. Large mutual insurers in the U.S. include Northwestern Mutual, Guardian, Penn Mutual, and Mutual of Omaha. Fast Fact As of March 2023, the latest information assembled from the Insurance Information Institute stated the U.S. insurance industry wrote a total of $1.4 trillion net premiums in 2021. Pros and Cons of Investing in the Insurance Sector Pros of Equity Ownership in Insurance Company Purchasing stock in insurance businesses can provide a number of benefits. Insurance firms receive money from the premiums that policyholders pay. Investors may benefit from the dependability and stability this steady source of income can offer, as this cash flow stream is often fixed and potentially locked into long-term agreements. As their clientele and portfolio of insurance products grow, insurance businesses may see long-term growth. The demand for insurance protection often rises as populations and economies expand while becoming more complex. Plus, compared to other industries, the insurance sector is typically less vulnerable to recessions. People and organizations frequently place a high priority on keeping their insurance coverage in place to guard against potential risks and losses, even in difficult economic circumstances. The practice of distributing dividends to shareholders is common among insurance businesses. Insurance stocks appeal to income-oriented investors since dividends can offer a continuous revenue stream to investors. In addition, insurance firms can change the cost of their premiums to reflect inflation, helping safeguard the value of investments against inflation. Last, there are legal ramifications that may be favorable. Mergers and acquisitions are a common method of industry consolidation in the insurance sector. As businesses join forces and realize possible synergies, this may result in higher shareholder value. The industry is also somewhat safer in regards to potentially more robust regulations in place to safeguard policyholders, companies, and investors. Cons of Equity Ownership in Insurance Company
