---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/best-ways-to-redeem-credit-card-rewards/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:36.587621+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:58 GMT
---
The Best Ways to Redeem Credit Card Rewards Quick Answer Whether you have a cash back or travel rewards credit card, you can often choose from several redemption options. Generally, you get the most value from sticking with the cardâs intended purposeâcash back or booking travel. Some of the best ways to redeem credit card rewards include booking travel and getting cash back. With most programs, you want to get at least 1 cent per mile or point (100 points equals $1, for instance). There are sometimes ways to get a much higher value, but the specifics depend on which credit card you have, your goals and how much time you want to spend learning the ins and outs of your card's rewards program. The Best Ways to Redeem Credit Card Rewards Rewards credit cards commonly offer one of four types of rewards: Cash back - Airline frequent-flier miles or points - Hotel loyalty program points - General points or miles in the card issuer's program - The best redemption options can depend on your specific card and your goals. For example, if you have an airline or general rewards card, a first-class flight might be great if it's just you and your partner. However, if you're booking travel for a family of four, getting the most bang for your buck might mean focusing on economy flights and longer stays at basic hotels. Earn rewards for your spending The Best Ways to Redeem Cash Back If you have a cash back credit card, you might earn cash back rewards that appear in your account as dollars, or get points or miles in the card issuer's program that you can redeem for cash back. When the latter is the case, your points and miles are generally worth 1 cent each, so 100 points or miles will equal $1. You can often decide how to redeem your cash back rewards, and common options include: Bank account deposit or ATM withdrawal: A convenient way to get access to your rewards, but it may only be available if you have a checking or savings account with the card issuer. - Check: Another convenient option, though you'll have to wait for the check to arrive in the mail. - Statement credit: A statement credit can lower your credit card balance, but it might not be the best option. With some cards, you won't get additional cash back for the portion of your balance that you pay off with your statement credit. - Some cards may also offer additional ways to redeem your rewards, such as using your cash back to shop, but these options usually aren't as good as simply getting your cash back and then spending it. Two exceptions are if you can get a bonus for redeeming your cash back rewards for a gift card and when you can transfer the cash back you earn (as points or miles) to another card from the same issuer. The Best Ways to Redeem Loyalty Program Points and Miles You can use hotel and airline credit cards to earn points and miles in the corresponding company's loyalty program. While you might have many options for using your rewards, booking a flight or hotel stay are often the best. Still, there are a few tips to keep in mind. Long Hotel Stays Although you'll need a lot of points to book several nights in a row, some hotel loyalty programs, such as Hilton Honors and Marriott Bonvoy, will give you a fifth night free when you redeem your points. Saving up for these longer redemptions can increase the value of your points, especially when you're booking higher-end hotels. Luxury Travel You can generally get the most value per point or mile when you redeem rewards for business or first-class flights and stays at luxury hotels, especially when
