---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/perfect-scores-who-has-them-and-what-do-they-have-in-common/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:39.706686+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:57 GMT
---
How Many Americans Have a Perfect 850 Credit Score? Quick Answer As of March 2025, 1.76% of U.S. consumers had a FICO Score of 850, according to Experian data. Some notable traits of consumers with a perfect credit score include an above average number of credit cards, lower credit utilization rate and lower than average total debt. As of March 2025, 1.76% of U.S. consumers had a FICOÂ® ScoreÎ of 850, according to Experian data. That's the highest this percentage has been since 2009. In this analysis, we observed the same general characteristics of consumers with a "perfect" FICOÂ® Score of 850 that we've found in prior years. That is, that they don't miss payments, don't use a high percentage of the credit extended to them and have been maintaining these responsible habits for years. Distribution of FICOÂ® Scores Among U.S. Consumers in 2025 Individuals with perfect credit scores generally have lower debt balances compared to the national average across all types of revolving credit and non-mortgage debt. When it comes to auto loans, for example, those with an 850 FICOÂ® Score tend to carry smaller balances. Characteristics of Consumers With 850 FICOÂ® Scores Those with an 850 FICOÂ® Score have the same general characteristics found in prior years: lower balances overall, except for mortgage balances, which are only slightly higher than those of all consumers. Average â¦ | All Consumers | 850 FICOÂ® Score Consumers | ---|---|---| FICOÂ® Score | 714 | 850 | ---|---|---| Credit card balance | $6,618 | $3,028 | ---|---|---| Retail card balance | $1,180 | $188 | ---|---|---| Number of credit cards | 3.7 | 5.7 | ---|---|---| Credit card utilization | 28% | 4% | ---|---|---| Mortgage balance | $256,803 | $261,476 | ---|---|---| Non-mortgage balance | $21,385 | $16,997 | ---|---|---| Auto loan balance | $24,408 | $20,401 | ---|---|---| Total accounts ever delinquent | 1.6 | 0 | ---|---|---| Source: Experian data as of March 2025 More importantly than debt balances, perhaps, are the metrics of credit utilization and delinquencies. On average, U.S. consumers are using about 28% of their available balance on their credit cards, which is still below the 30% threshold when credit card debt starts to have a greater negative effect on credit. On the other hand, those with 850 scores use only 4% of what they have available, on average. Perfect credit scorers have also pleased their creditors, with zero delinquent accounts in their credit history. States Where Perfect Credit Scores Are More Common In two regions of the U.S.âthe Northeast and Westâmore than 2% of consumers have an 850 FICOÂ® Score. Only in the Southern U.S. does a smaller share of consumers have perfect scores than the national average of 1.76%. Percentage of 850 FICOÂ® Scores by Region | ---| Midwest | 1.83% | ---|---| Northeast | 2.01% | ---|---| South | 1.33% | ---|---| West | 2.1% | ---|---| U.S. | 1.76% | ---|---| Source: Experian data from March 2025 Note: Geography based on U.S. Census regions Aside from the shading becoming a bit darker in states that have gained ground, the 850 FICOÂ® Score credit map below resembles those of prior years. States with average credit scores that are higher than the norm unsurprisingly also have more than the national share of consumers rocking an 850 score. Percentage of Consumers With 850 FICOÂ® Scores by State But higher percentages of 850 scores don't necessarily mean overall credit scores are higher in the state as well, though sometimes it's clearly the case, as in Minnesota and Wisconsin. Mid-Atlantic states like Delaware and Maryland have a high percentage of perfect scores, but overall, credit score averages are at or even below the national average of 714. State | Percentage of Consumers With an 850 FICOÂ® Score | Average FICOÂ® Score (Rank) | ---|---|---| 1. Minnesota |
