---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/personal-finance/articles/-/learn/what-is-a-digital-wallet/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:01.895134+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
even more secure by enabling automatic screen lock on your smart device. This way, even if a thief gets their hands on your device, they’ll need to get past your password protection or other security measures, such as fingerprint or facial recognition, to access your data. Pros of digital wallets There are many reasons you might consider using a digital wallet: Digital wallets can be incredibly convenient. Forget pulling out your physical wallet and fumbling for the right card to use. With a digital wallet, you have everything neatly organized and securely stored on your device. There are many different digital wallets to choose from. Most digital wallets are free, and some may even come pre-installed on your smartphone. The range of options allows you to choose which wallet works best for your lifestyle and the merchants you frequent. You may find special rewards exclusive to virtual wallets. Some digital wallets offer special offers, bonuses and other incentives to encourage consumers to spend more using their service. Check with your virtual wallet provider to learn about any rewards available through their service. Cons of digital wallets It’s also important to keep certain caveats in mind before committing to a digital wallet: Not all merchants accept virtual wallets. Although this may change in the future, many stores don’t yet offer an electronic payment option. You’ll likely still need a physical wallet for some purchases. Easy access may encourage excessive spending. A digital wallet allows you to make purchases within seconds, but that convenience could have a downside. Some people tend to shop more freely when they are not physically handling their cash or credit card, so beware of overspending. Security is still a consideration. A digital wallet’s encryption can prevent hackers from accessing your credit and debit cards. However, the strength of your wallet’s security is still connected to the password protection on your device. If someone can easily guess the password to unlock your phone, they may also be able to access your digital wallet. Is a digital wallet right for me? Digital wallets can be helpful options in certain situations, but they may not be for everyone. If you’re considering a digital wallet for yourself, be sure to: Do your research to determine which digital wallet provider best fits your needs. - Keep careful track of your spending to avoid going overboard when you don’t have to use a physical credit card or cash. - Be aware that not all merchants will accept payments via digital wallets. - Keep security in mind and take extra precautions to better protect your smart devices. - Get your free credit score today! We get it, credit scores are important. A monthly free credit score & Equifax credit report are available with Equifax Core CreditTM. No credit card required.
