---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-1099-k/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:12.570020+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:15 GMT
---
be issued by January 31 for the previous tax year. For example, companies issuing 1099-Ks for the 2025 tax year must send them by January 31, 2026. Copies must be sent to you and the IRS. Do I Need to Pay Taxes on 1099-K Income? It depends. The answer is often yes, but there are some exceptions. Here's a quick overview of what to expect. When You Need to Pay Taxes on 1099-K Income Income reported on a 1099-K falls into one of two general categories: business or personal. All legitimate business income is subject to federal and state taxes. If you're self-employed, 1099-K forms aren't a substitute for keeping your own records. Ultimately, it's up to you to accurately report all your income to the IRS, whether it appears on a 1099-K or not. If you receive a 1099-K because you sold some of your personal belongings, you're responsible for paying taxes on the income if you profited from the sale. When You Don't Need to Pay on 1099-K Income Income that appears on a 1099-K form isn't always taxable. Here are some scenarios when you may not need to pay taxes. A payment for which you issued a refund is listed. - You're not the owner of the business account named. - The income reported is inaccurate. - You sold a personal item for less than what you paid for it. - Learn more: What Is Taxable Income? What to Do if Your 1099-K Is Incorrect If you receive a 1099-K with inaccurate information, contact the payment service that filed it and request a corrected form. Be sure to keep all correspondence between you and the company and maintain a copy of the corrected 1099-K for your records. If you don't receive an updated form before your taxes are due, you should still file on time. You can report the error on your tax return so it doesn't affect your taxable income. How to Report 1099-K Income on Your Taxes The way you report 1099-K income on your taxes depends on the type of income you receive and how your business is set up. Business Income If you're self-employed or have a side hustle in addition to your "regular" job and file your taxes as a sole proprietor, use Schedule C to report your 1099-K income. Partners in a business partnership should use Schedule E, and if your business entity is a corporation, you have two options: S-corporations should use Form 1120-S, and if you don't have an S-corporation, use Form 1120. If you own an investment property or rent out part of your home, you can report rental income on Schedule E or Schedule C. Tip: Income reported on 1099-Ks may not represent your total annual revenue. You're responsible for reporting all your income, including payments received via cash, check and other methods that don't appear on a 1099-K and paying the appropriate taxes. Sale of Personal Items If you receive a 1099-K after selling a personal item, reporting requirements vary based on whether you sold the item for a profit or loss. You can report items sold at a loss on Schedule 1 or Form 8949. Report items sold for a profit on Schedule D and Form 8949. Learn more: How to Report 1099-K Income Frequently Asked Questions The Bottom Line Receiving a 1099-K form shouldn't affect your tax bill, but it can provide a layer of accountability to your tax preparation process. If reporting your income and doing your taxes seems more complicated than in years past, you might want to work with a tax professional. They can help you calculate your taxable income accurately, identify legitimate deduction opportunities, reconcile your profits and losses and stay on the right side of the IRS. Save timeâfind the right tax prep service Skip the guesswork with these
