---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-the-easiest-store-card-to-get-with-bad-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:15.927934+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:28 GMT
---
score harm if it climbs too high. If you wind up using a large portion (such as over 30%) of your credit limit, paying down your balance before your bill comes due can help you maintain your scores. Credit card issuers often report balances to the credit bureaus around the end of a billing cycle, and paying down your balance early can lead to the lower balance being reported and a lower resulting utilization ratio. How to Use Your Store Card Responsibly Having a store card can make it tempting to spend even more at your favorite stores, but responsible use can help you save money and be good for your credit. Once you have a store card, here are a few things you should try to incorporate into your financial routine: Keep track of the fees. Store cards may charge a variety of fees, including annual, cash advance and foreign transaction fees. Know which fees your card charges and learn how to avoid them, when possible. - Track your credit utilization. Maintaining a low utilization ratio on store cards can be especially difficult when the card has a low credit limit. Make a point of limiting how often you use the card or paying down the balance early to keep your utilization ratio low. - Pay your balance in full. To avoid interest, it's best to only charge what you can afford to pay off in full by the bill's due date. If you think you may occasionally carry a balance, make sure you understand how much interest you'll pay. - Continue comparison shopping. While store cards may offer rewards on purchases at the associated store, don't assume that means you're always getting a good deal. Buying a product for $100 and earning 5% cash back is still worse than getting the same item for $90 elsewhere. - Take Additional Steps to Improve Your Credit Because store cards can be easier to qualify for than general-use credit cards, getting a store card (and using it responsibly) can be a good way to build credit. However, if you're having trouble getting approved for a store card or looking for additional ways to build credit, also look into: Secured credit cards: Secured credit cards help you build credit the same way store and non-store cards do, but can be even easier to qualify for. Like store cards, some secured cards don't have an annual fee but do offer rewards. The catch is that you have to send the card issuer a refundable security deposit, which usually determines your card's credit limit. - Credit-builder loans: Having a mix of revolving accounts (such as credit cards) and installment loans can also be good for your credit. As the name suggests, a credit-builder loan is an installment loan that's specifically designed to help borrowers improve their credit. Often, the loan proceeds are kept in a locked account that's unlocked when you finish paying off the loan. As a result, borrowers may improve their credit and build their savings at the same time. Make sure your lender reports your payment activity to all three credit bureaus. - If you already have other credit cards or loans, managing them well will also be important to improving your credit. In addition to paying your bills on time and working to pay down credit card balances, this may mean bringing past-due accounts current or working with a credit counselor to get on a debt management plan. Check Your Credit Before Applying While your credit isn't the only factor that credit card issuers consider, your credit score can impact your ability to qualify for a new card as well as the interest rate and credit limit you receive. If you don't know where you currently stand, you can check your credit score for free on Experian. You can also
