---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/report-basics/how-and-when-collections-are-removed-from-a-credit-report/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:49.817397+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:12 GMT
---
or reduce payments temporarily, and utility companies may have programs you can apply for to assist with your bills. In any case, working in good faith with companies you owe money lowers the odds they'll send your account to collections. - Check your credit reports regularly. An account you don't recognize could indicate identity theft or other fraudulent activity conducted in your name. Review your credit reports regularly to help you spot and report an unauthorized account as soon as it shows up on your credit report. That, in turn, could help lenders shut down the bogus account before it defaults and gets sent to collection. You can review your credit report for free with Experian. - The Bottom Line A collection account is a blemish on your credit report that remains for seven years and can harm your credit scores until it expires. You can avoid a collection by paying your bills on time every month, bringing accounts current as soon as possible if you fall behind and checking your credit reports regularly for signs of suspicious accounts. For extra peace of mind concerning unauthorized credit accounts, consider free credit monitoring from Experian, which sends you alerts whenever there's new activity on your Experian credit report. Instantly raise your FICO® Score for free Use Experian Boost® to get credit for the bills you already pay like utilities, mobile phone, video streaming services and now rent. No credit card required About the author Jim Akin is freelance writer based in Connecticut. With experience as both a journalist and a marketing professional, his most recent focus has been in the area of consumer finance and credit scoring. Read more from Jim
