---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/data-research/consumer-complaints/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:05.490393+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Consumer Complaint Database Explore our database of financial product and service complaints to see how companies respond to consumers. View trends, see maps, read complaints, and export the data. Explore data View, filter, map, and read complaint data right in your browser. Get data All complaint data we publish is freely available for anyone to use, analyze, and build on. Read reports Each spring we report to Congress on complaint trends from the prior year. About the database What’s published and when Only complaints sent to companies for response are eligible to be published and are only published after the company responds, confirming a commercial relationship or after 15 days, whichever comes first. The database generally updates daily. We do not publish complaints referred to other regulators, such as complaints about depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets. We publish the consumer’s narrative description from their complaint if the consumer opts to share it publicly and after the Bureau takes steps to remove personal information. This database is not a statistical sample of consumers’ experiences in the marketplace and these complaints are not necessarily representative of all consumers’ experiences with a financial product or company. Complaints are not “information” for purposes of the Information Quality Act. Understanding complaint volume The lack of complaints or a relatively low number of complaints published in the database about a product, issue, or company does not necessarily mean there is little or no consumer harm. Depending on the nature of the financial product and how consumers use the product, consumers may be harmed in ways that do not cause them to complain to the Bureau or to blame the product or provider for the harm they have suffered. When looking at complaint volume about a company or product, consider company size and/or market share. For example, companies with more customers may have more complaints than companies with fewer customers. When looking at complaint volume for a state or ZIP code, consider the population in that geography. We encourage you to pair complaint data with public and private data sets for additional context. Viewing trends Recent complaint data and trends will not yet include all complaints eligible for publication to allow companies 15 days to respond. Reading complaints Complaint narratives are consumers’ descriptions of their experiences in their own words. Consider what conclusions may be fairly drawn from reading consumers’ descriptions of their experiences. We do not adopt their views or verify that their experiences are accurate or unbiased. Recent complaint data will not include all complaint narratives eligible for publication until we have completed our steps to remove personal information from each consumer narrative. How we use complaint data Complaints can give us insights into problems people are experiencing in the marketplace and help us regulate consumer financial products and services under existing federal consumer financial laws, enforce those laws judiciously, and educate and empower consumers to make informed financial decisions. Get the data Downloading the data You can download all complaint data as either a CSV or JSON file here, or you can download a subset of the data—such as all complaints for a specific product—by filtering the full data set and exporting your results. Filter the full data set before you download - Download all complaint data | CSV - Download all complaint data | JSON - See database field reference - See past database releases - Using our API Looking to export our data and have more control over it? Use our Open Data API. Past product and issue changes When we make changes to products, sub-products, issues, and sub-issues we provide detailed information here. Most changes are updates to the organization of products and issues or wording changes to make the issues easier for consumers to understand. The Consumer Complaint Database shows the consumer's original products, sub-products, issues,
