---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/ways-to-improve-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:21.199349+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:09 GMT
---
a bill to be eligible, you'll need to have at least three payments in the past six months (including one payment within the past three months). Experian Boost is free, but it will only affect your Experian credit report and scores. Those who are eligible could see an instant increase to their FICOÂ® Score. 10. Keep Old Accounts Open Even if you no longer use an old credit card, it's typically best to keep the account open. That's because your credit scores benefit from a long credit history and a high total credit limit. Closing established accounts will shorten the average age of your accounts and lower your total credit limit. It will take years before an account closed in good standing drops off your credit report, but the effects on your credit utilization rate are immediate. If a credit card comes with a high annual fee you can't afford, closing the account could be a good optionâor ask your issuer to downgrade the card to a no-fee version if possible. 11. Limit New Lines of Credit When you apply for a new credit card or loan, a hard inquiry will appear on your credit report, possibly leading to a small, temporary dip in your scores. Plan to apply only for the credit you truly need, after you've done enough research to understand which accounts you'll likely qualify forâand avoid new loans you may have difficulty payingâso you can help your credit improve. Learn more: How Long to Wait Between Credit Card Applications 12. Apply for Loans Within a Short Time Period Lots of hard inquiries in a short time could be an indication to lenders that you're searching for lines of credit you won't be able to pay. Strategic borrowers, though, will apply for a few loans of the same typeâsuch as a mortgage, car or personal loanâto compare rates. To avoid penalizing borrowers for rate shopping, credit scoring models treat multiple hard inquiries of the same loan type made around the same time as one, reducing the negative effects on your credit score. So try to submit applications within a short time frame, ideally two weeks. Keep in mind, though, that the scoring models don't offer this same allowance for credit card applications; all of these will count individually regardless of when you submit them. Learn more: How Does Rate Shopping Affect Your Credit Scores? 13. Pay Off Credit Card Balances Every Month In addition to lowering existing debt balances, minimize ongoing debt by making it a goal to pay off your credit cards each month. Zeroing out your balance each statement period keeps your credit utilization low, which is one of the best ways to strengthen credit. You'll also avoid incurring interest charges. Learn more: How Important Is Credit Card Utilization to Your Credit Score? 14. Track Your Credit Score When you monitor your credit score, you can intervene quickly if it drops. You can address factors that influence your score, such as high balances, late payments or too many recent hard inquiries. There are many ways to check and monitor your credit scores for free, including through your current credit card issuer or bank, or through Experian. 15. Protect Your Personal Information to Avoid Fraud Your credit can be affected by identity theft if fraudsters access your personal information to open accounts in your name. To help keep your data safe, use a password manager to create and store unique passwords and avoid making financial transactions on public Wi-Fi networks, which could be vulnerable to hackers. Learn more: What You Can Do to Avoid Identity and Credit Fraud 16. Responsibly Add to Your Credit Mix Lenders look for a mix of accounts in your credit file to show that you can manage multiple types of credit. These include installment loans, for which you pay a fixed
