---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-save-money/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:17.371126+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:50 GMT
---
meals for special occasions. You can also trim your restaurant bill by going for lunch or happy hour, drinking water instead of pricey beverages or ordering appetizers instead of a main course. 16. Learn to DIY Hiring experts to hem your pants, cut your kid's hair, change your car's oil or fix a leaky faucet gets expensive fast. Cut costs by finding a how-to video or product manual online and learning how to do it yourself. If you prefer hands-on instruction, check offerings from local home improvement stores, garden centers, fabric stores or city recreation departments. For example, many home improvement retailers hold free workshops on topics like painting walls or installing tile. 17. Cut Your Cable, Phone and Internet Bills Save on cable, phone and internet services by exploring alternatives such as switching your plan to a lower-priced option. You might be able to bundle services or downgrade your plan, for example. Cellular service providers often offer discounts if you choose a family and friends plan. You might save on cable TV by cutting the cord and changing to streaming, or reduce internet prices by settling for lower speeds. When in doubt, contact your provider and see what they can do to lower your bill, or sign up for Experian BillFixerâ¢ and let someone else do the hard work for you. 18. Use a Rewards Credit Card Cash back credit cards can help you get cash back for purchases you'd make anyway. To maximize savings without overspending, look for a credit card that rewards you for essential purchases, such as groceries or gasoline. To avoid incurring interest that would probably surpass any rewards you earn, always pay the balance in full before your credit card's grace period is up. 19. Shop Around for Insurance Savings It can be tempting to "set and forget" your auto or homeowners insuranceâbut that could be a costly mistake. Shop for insurance once a year or so, and you may find equivalent or better coverage at a lower cost. Rate-shop fast by using an insurance comparison site like Experian's, which delivers quotes from over 40 top car insurance companies in minutes. 20. Find Inexpensive Ways to Treat Yourself Avoid budget burnout by giving yourself small rewards for sticking to your savings plan. Put 50 cents or $1 in a jar every day you follow your budget and use it to treat yourself at the end of the month. Look for lower-cost versions of your favorite activities. Instead of a $40 manicure, for instance, buy a $10 bottle of polish and do your nails at home. If you've eliminated daily lattes, let yourself savor one at the end of the month. 21. Buddy Up Holding yourself accountable can help you stick to your budget. Ask a friend to join you as an accountability partner and keep you on track. You can also use an accountability app like BeeMinder or Fabulous to track and support healthy savings habits. Look for social media influencers whose personal financial advice inspires youâjust be sure to vet their advice before making drastic changes. 22. Earn More Money Reach your savings goals faster by making more money. Request extra hours at work, apply for a promotion or better-paying job, or ask your boss for a raise. If your schedule allows, consider getting a part-time job or starting a side hustle. There are plenty of options, including tutoring, childcare, walking dogs, delivering food, rideshare driving, selling things online and more. 23. Cut Your Transportation Costs Can you work from home a few days a week, or commute via public transportation, carpooling, bicycling, walking or ride-sharing? If so, you could save hundreds of dollars per month compared to driving your car. Some employers even offer stipends or reimbursements for employees who choose greener transportation options. If these options won't work for your daily
