---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution-conan/amendment-14/modern-doctrine-on-appropriate-scrutiny
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:10:59.629098+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 06 Mar 2025 19:32:17 GMT
---
Grutter, but rather focused primarily on racial considerations.33 Although a majority of the Court found the plans unconstitutional, only four Justices (including the Chief Justice) concluded that alleviating “de facto” racial imbalance in elementary and secondary schools could never be a compelling governmental interest. Justice Anthony Kennedy, while finding that the school plans at issue were unconstitutional because they were not narrowly tailored,34 suggested in separate concurrence that relieving “racial isolation” could be a compelling governmental interest. The Justice even envisioned the use of plans based on individual racial classifications “as a last resort” if other means failed.35 As Justice Anthony Anthony Kennedy’s concurrence appears to represent a narrower basis for the judgment of the Court than does Justice John Roberts’ opinion, it appears to represent, for the moment, the controlling opinion for the lower courts.36 On June 29, 2023, the Supreme Court issued a decision in two cases involving Fourteenth Amendment Equal Protection Clause challenges to university admissions policies, Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President and Fellows of Harvard College37 and Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. University of North Carolina.38 The challenged university admissions programs sought to promote student body diversity through the use of race-conscious preferences.39 The Court ruled that, because Harvard’s and the University of North Carolina’s admissions policies “lack sufficiently focused and measurable objectives warranting the use of race, unavoidably employ race in a negative manner, involve racial stereotyping, and lack meaningful end points, those admissions programs cannot be reconciled with the guarantees of the Equal Protection Clause.” 40 However, the Court suggested that institutions of higher education may consider during the admissions process “an applicant’s discussion of how race affected his or her life, be it through discrimination, inspiration, or otherwise,” provided that the discussion is tied to the student’s character or “unique ability to contribute to the university.” 41 Footnotes - 1 - 488 U.S. 469 (1989). Croson was decided by a 6-3 vote. The portions of Justice Sandra Day O’Connor’s opinion adopted as the opinion of the Court were joined by Chief Justice William Rehnquist and by Justices Byron White, John Paul Stevens, and Anthony Kennedy. The latter two Justices joined only part of Justice Sandra Day O’Connor’s opinion; each added a separate concurring opinion. Justice Antonin Scalia concurred separately; Justices Thurgood Marshall, William Brennan, and Harry Blackmun dissented. - 2 - 497 U.S. 547 (1990). This was a 5-4 decision, Justice William Brennan’s opinion of the Court being joined by Justices Byron White, Thurgood Marshall, Harry Blackmun, and John Paul Stevens. Justice Sandra Day O’Connor wrote a dissenting opinion joined by the Chief Justice and by Justices Antonin Scalia and Anthony Kennedy, and Justice Anthony Kennedy added a separate dissenting opinion joined by Justice Antonin Scalia. - 3 - Id. at 564–65. - 4 - 488 U.S. at 501–02. - 5 - Id. at 506. - 6 - Id. at 508. - 7 - 497 U.S. at 600. Justice Sandra Day O’Connor’s dissenting opinion contended that the case “does not present ‘a considered decision of the Congress and the President.’” Id. at 607 (quoting Fullilove, 448 U.S. at 473). - 8 - 497 U.S. at 563 & n.11. For the dissenting views of Justice Sandra Day O’Connor see id. at 606–07. See also Croson, 488 U.S. at 504 (opinion of Court). - 9 - 515 U.S. 200 (1995). This was a 5-4 decision. Justice Sandra Day O’Connor’s opinion for Court was joined by Chief Justice William Rehnquist, and by Justices Anthony Kennedy, Clarence Thomas, and—to the extent not inconsistent with his own concurring opinion—Antonin Scalia. Justices John Paul Stevens, David Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer dissented. - 10 - 515 U.S. at 227 (emphasis original). - 11 - 539 U.S. 306 (2003). - 12 - 539 U.S. 244 (2003). - 13 - 539 U.S. at 316. - 14
