---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/cheapest-car-insurance/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:53.138082+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:09 GMT
---
Car Insurance as a High-Risk Driver Even if your driving record isn't squeaky-clean, it's possible to find affordable auto insurance. The table below shows the average cost of auto insurance in the U.S. for drivers with negative marks on their driving records. (Incidents include things like traffic accidents or insurance claims; violations include moving violations, such as speeding tickets.) Driving Record | Annual Cost | ---|---| Clean Record | $2,161 | 1 Incident | $2,510 | 1 Violation | $2,615 | 2 Incidents | $2,721 | 2 Violations | $2,627 | 3+ Incidents | $3,160 | 3+ Violations | $2,932 | Source: Experian data Note: Costs above are a blended average of full and minimum coverage policies sold through Experian's marketplace How to Save Money on Car Insurance Saving money on auto insurance gives you more money to put toward other financial goals. Try these tips to save on car insurance. Raise Your Deductible The deductible is the amount you're responsible for paying when you file an auto insurance claim. Insurance companies generally offer deductibles of $250 to $2,000. In general, increasing your deductible should lower your premiums. Before raising your deductible, you should feel confident you could pay more out of pocket if you have to file an auto insurance claim. Assess the state of your emergency fund and your other financial resources. Your car insurance carrier can show you how various deductible amounts would affect your premiums. Look for Discounts Start by checking with your current car insurance company to see if they offer any discounts you aren't already using. Then visit other providers' websites to find out what discounts they have available. Common car insurance discounts include savings for bundling home and auto insurance, paying your premium upfront, eliminating paper statements or setting up automatic premium payments. Many insurers offer discounts for getting insurance quotes online or signing documents digitally. You can also check with your workplace and any membership organizations you belong toâthey may offer discounts on car insurance too. Eliminate Extra Coverage There are plenty of car insurance extras, such as rental car reimbursement, windshield replacement or roadside assistance coverage, that are nice to have but not essential. Canceling coverage you don't need can be an easy way to lower your insurance costs. For instance, if your family owns several cars, you may not need insurance to pay for a rental car while your car is in the shop due to a claim. If your car is paid off and not worth very much, you may want to consider dropping collision and comprehensive coverage. At most, collision and comprehensive coverage only pays out the vehicle's value, so it may not be worth maintaining this coverage for a car that's worth a few thousand dollars. Just be sure you could afford to replace or repair your vehicle without insurance if it were totaled. Learn more: Top Car Insurance Discounts Drive Less The more time you spend on the road, the greater your risk of being involved in a car accident. That's why many auto insurance companies offer discounts if you drive fewer than 12,000 miles per year. To reduce your mileage, consider walking, carpooling or biking more often. You can even investigate switching to full- or part-time remote work if your employer allows. Some low-mileage car insurance plans track your mileage using self-reported or third-party odometer readings or devices installed in your vehicle. Another option is pay-per-mile car insurance, which charges a monthly base rate plus a per-mile charge for each additional mile. Drive Safely Maintaining a clean driving record can help keep your car insurance costs down, so make it a goal to go without citations or accidents. Need to brush up on traffic rules? Many insurance companies offer discounts if you complete an approved defensive driving or safe driving course. Improve Your Credit Insurance
