---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/best-cd-rates-4770214
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:54.687783+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
more. For example, you might buy a $1,000 T-bill for $950. When the bill matures, you will get $1,000, or $50 more than what you paid for it. This increase of $50 is the interest you earn. CDs are a little less complicated, where you put in a set amount, and then receive a fixed interest rate when it matures. Frequently Asked Questions Who Has the Best CD Rates? The highest CD rate right now is 4.50% APY from Connexus Credit Union on a 7-month term. The top rate could change, though, as interest rates fluctuate daily and institutions can offer CDs with high interest rates for as long or as short of a time as they want. Are CDs Safe? CDs are safe because they are usually offered by banks or credit unions which are insured by the FDIC or NCUA. This means your money at a bank or credit union, across all of your accounts (CDs, savings, and checking, etc.) is insured for up to $250,000. CDs also come with virtually no risk since the interest rate is usually fixed; you'll know what to returns to expect before even opening the CD. How Have CD Rates Changed Over Time? The top CD rates continually change, based on the U.S. interest rate environment. When the federal funds rate is low, CD rates tend to be low, and when the fed funds rate is high, CD rates tend to be high. To combat high inflation between 2021 and 2023, the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee dramatically raised the fed funds rate to its highest level in more than 20 years. That in turn pushed CD rates to a peak of 6.00% in 2024. Compare that to 2021, when the top CD rate was around 1.35%. Do You Pay Taxes on CD Interest? Yes, your earnings on a CD are considered interest income, and are taxed in the same way as interest earnings from a savings, money market, or checking account. The bank or credit union will send you a tax form early in the calendar year, showing how much interest you earned in the previous tax year, which you'll use to file your tax return. Can I Get 6% on a CD? There are currently no nationally available CDs offering 6% APY, but you may find local offers that are higher than the best national CDs. Although 6% CDs may have been available in the past, the top options today tend to be below 5%. Who Has the Best CD Rates Near Me? Our ranking of the best CD rates above lists the best-available national offers. But you may find local CDs with even better offers. Try searching for local banks and credit unions, with search terms like "[Your town] best CD rates." Is Now a Good Time to Buy a CD? Putting money into a CD right now may be a smart move if you're looking to earn a high interest rate on money you don't need. CD rates are over 5.00% for many terms right now, and locking up your money for six, 12, or even 24 months could help you in the long run if CD rates decline in the next year or two. CD rates are higher in 2024 than they have been in 20 years. So yes, now is a good time to buy a CD. What Is a Jumbo CD? A CD with a minimum deposit requirement of $100,000 or more is usually considered a jumbo CD. While the required minimum deposit is higher than traditional CDs, the interest rates on jumbos are not always higher. That means you could earn a higher interest rate by depositing $100,000 in a traditional CD instead of a jumbo CD. Just shop around to learn which CD is best for your money and situation. Financial Products
