---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-long-does-it-take-to-build-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:15.881023+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:36 GMT
---
you close your account, but some card issuers will return it sooner if you show good credit habits. - Store credit card: Many retailers offer store credit cards that you can use to build credit. These cards typically don't have high credit score requirements, but keep in mind that they can be expensive and encourage overspending. - 3. Consider a Credit-Builder Loan Credit-builder loans are solely designed to help you improve your credit score, so they function differently than other loans. Instead of giving you the loan amount up front, the lender sets it aside in a savings or certificate of deposit (CD) account. Then, once you've finished making payments, the lender gives you the funds plus the interest accrued from the savings or CD account. Since the lender holds onto the cash from the beginning, many credit-builder loans offer decent interest rates. Just make sure the lender reports your payments to all three credit bureaus to ensure that the loan is effective in building your credit. 4. Become an Authorized User Another option is to piggyback off an already-open account as an authorized user. A parent, spouse or other family member can add you to their credit card account with a separate card. You will build a credit history based on the usage of that card, but the primary cardholder will be the one who must pay off any charges. If you're going with this method, choose someone you know is responsible with their credit card and be sure to establish rules with the primary cardholder regarding how you will use the card. Monitor Your Credit to Track Progress and Address Issues As you work to build your credit history, it's crucial that you monitor your credit regularly to stay on top of your credit. With Experian's free credit monitoring service, which is included with Experian Goâ¢, you'll get free access to your FICOÂ® Score (once you have one) and Experian credit report. What's more, you'll get real-time alerts when changes are made to your credit report, so if issues do arise, you can address them quickly to avoid further damage. While it can take time to build credit, your efforts can pay off in the long run in the form of more financing opportunities and savings. What makes a good credit score? Learn what it takes to achieve a good credit score. Review your FICOÂ® Score for free and see whatâs helping and hurting your score. Get your FICOÂ® ScoreNo credit card required About the author Ben Luthi has worked in financial planning, banking and auto finance, and writes about all aspects of money. His work has appeared in Time, Success, USA Today, Credit Karma, NerdWallet, Wirecutter and more. Read more from Ben
