---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/military-credit-monitoring/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:53.116013+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Notifications of key changes to your Equifax credit report - Daily access to your Equifax credit report1 - Automatic fraud alerts: When activated, an initial fraud alert will appear on your credit reports and will be automatically renewed every year2 - Up to $25,000 of insurance coverage to help with certain out-of-pocket expenses in the event you are a victim of identity theft3 - What you need to know Military members on active duty status; reservists performing duty under a call or order to active duty under a provision of law; and members of the National Guard. Retired military members are not eligible for this product. For more information check the Military personnel & families FAQ page. A new federal law which amends the Fair Credit Reporting Act requires the three nationwide credit bureaus (Equifax, Experian and TransUnion) to offer free credit monitoring services to active duty military members and members of the National Guard. Under certain circumstances, access to your Equifax Credit Report may not be available as certain consumer credit files maintained by Equifax contain credit histories, multiple trade accounts, and/or an extraordinary number of inquiries of a nature that prevents or delays the delivery of your Equifax Credit Report. If a remedy for the failure is not available, the product subscription will be cancelled and a full refund will be made. ¹The Automatic Fraud Alert feature is made available to consumers by Equifax Information Services LLC and fulfilled on its behalf by Equifax Consumer Services LLC. The Automatic Fraud Alert feature functions with an initial fraud alert only and does not renew active duty or extended fraud alerts. The Identity Theft Insurance benefit is underwritten and administered by American Bankers Insurance Company of Florida, an Assurant company, under group or blanket policies issued to Equifax, Inc., or its respective affiliates for the benefit of its Members. Please refer to the actual policies for terms, conditions, and exclusions of coverage. Coverage may not be available in all jurisdictions.
