---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-the-difference-between-a-credit-freeze-and-fraud-alert/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:23.077185+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:28 GMT
---
fraud alertâif you feel the danger of becoming a victim of fraud or identity theft has passed. What Is a Credit Freeze? A credit freeze, also called a security freeze, restricts creditors from accessing your credit report in order to open new credit accounts in your name. A credit freeze is designed to protect consumers from fraud. While a credit freeze limits access to your credit report, it doesn't keep all people and organizations from looking at it. Aside from you viewing your own report during a freeze, others that can view it include: Current lenders and card issuers that conduct credit checks to manage accounts - Landlords and rental agencies that are reviewing your application to become a tenant - Debt collectors pursuing a payment - Credit card issuers that have prescreened you for credit offers - Prospective employers who've gained your permission to conduct a background check - Child support agencies - Government agencies carrying out court orders or warrants - How to Freeze Your Credit You can freeze your credit at any time, but you must contact each of the three major credit bureaus to do so. Here are the steps for freezing your credit online with Experian: Sign up for a free Experian account (if you don't already have one). - Provide your name, date of birth, two-year address history and Social Security number. - Set up a security freeze to limit access to your Experian credit report. This freeze takes effect right away and can be removed whenever you want. - If you request a security freeze online or by phone, a credit bureau must activate the freeze within one business day. If the request is made by mail, a credit bureau must activate the freeze within three business days. When to Unfreeze Your Credit You can temporarily thaw or permanently unfreeze your credit report whenever you want. Experian allows you to do this online, by phone or by email. A temporary thaw involves setting a start and end date for unfreezing your report, while permanent removal means the freeze is no longer in effect unless you reactivate it. If you request an unfreeze online or by phone, a credit bureau must unfreeze your credit report within one hour. For mailed requests, the freeze must take effect within three business days. When you plan to apply for new creditâsuch as a credit card, mortgage or auto loanâyou should thaw or unfreeze your credit report. Otherwise, a potential creditor won't be able to see your credit report and thus will not be able to evaluate your application. Should You Use a Fraud Alert or a Credit Freeze? Some situations might call for a fraud alert, while others might be better handled with a credit freeze. Here's a rundown of when you should use one or the other: If you're a victim of credit fraud or identity theft, choosing between an extended fraud alert and a credit freeze may come down to how often you expect to need access to your credit reports. In addition to the scenarios below, consider whether you're comfortable with a fraud alert, which requires lenders to take extra measures to verify your identity in the event you (or others) apply for credit in your name, or whether you'd prefer the added limitations of a credit freeze. - If you plan to apply for several types of new credit, such as an auto loan, mortgage or credit card, within the next few yearsâor perhaps you're eyeing a new apartment or new cellphone service providerâit might be simpler to activate a fraud alert instead of a series of credit freezes and thaws. - If you don't plan to apply for a new credit card or loan in the near future, a credit freeze might be the best choice. However, you may need to thaw
