---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution-conan/amendment-14/modern-doctrine-on-appropriate-scrutiny
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:10:59.629098+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 06 Mar 2025 19:32:17 GMT
---
8 - 497 U.S. at 563 & n.11. For the dissenting views of Justice Sandra Day O’Connor see id. at 606–07. See also Croson, 488 U.S. at 504 (opinion of Court). - 9 - 515 U.S. 200 (1995). This was a 5-4 decision. Justice Sandra Day O’Connor’s opinion for Court was joined by Chief Justice William Rehnquist, and by Justices Anthony Kennedy, Clarence Thomas, and—to the extent not inconsistent with his own concurring opinion—Antonin Scalia. Justices John Paul Stevens, David Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer dissented. - 10 - 515 U.S. at 227 (emphasis original). - 11 - 539 U.S. 306 (2003). - 12 - 539 U.S. 244 (2003). - 13 - 539 U.S. at 316. - 14 - Id. at 335. - 15 - Id., at 315. While an educational institution will receive deference in its judgment as to whether diversity is essential to its educational mission, the courts must closely scrutinize the means by which this goal is achieved. Thus, the institution will receive no deference regarding the question of the necessity of the means chosen and will bear the burden of demonstrating that “each applicant is evaluated as an individual and not in a way that an applicant’s race or ethnicity is the defining feature of his or her application.” Fisher v. Univ. of Tex. at Austin (Fisher I), 570 U.S. 297, 298 (2013) (citation omitted). In its 2013 decision in Fisher, the Court did not rule on the substance of the challenged affirmative action program and instead remanded the case so that the reviewing appellate court could apply the correct standard of review. However, the Court issued a subsequent decision in Fisher addressing the Texas program directly. See Fisher v. Univ. of Tex. at Austin (Fisher II), 136 S. Ct. 2198 (2016). - 16 - 539 U.S. at 272–73. - 17 - 438 U.S. 265, 317 (1978). - 18 - Id. at 284–85. - 19 - Fisher II, 136 S. Ct. at 2206. - 20 - Id. at 2208. - 21 - Id. at 2209. - 22 - Id. - 23 - Fisher I, 570 U.S. 297, 298 (2013). The first of these principles is that strict scrutiny requires the university to demonstrate with clarity that its “purpose or interest is both constitutionally permissible and substantial, and that its use of the classification is necessary . . . to the accomplishment of its purpose.” Id. at 309. The second principle is that the decision to pursue the educational benefits that flow from student body diversity is, in substantial measure, an “academic judgment” to which “some, but not complete, judicial deference is proper.” Id. at 310. The third is that no deference is owed in determining whether the use of race is narrowly tailored; rather, the university bears burden of proving a non-racial approach would not promote its interests “about as well” and “at tolerable administrative expense.” Id. at 312. - 24 - Fisher II, 136 S. Ct. at 2209–10. - 25 - Id. - 26 - Id. at 2210–11. On the other hand, the Court emphasized that the university cannot claim educational benefits in “diversity writ large.” Id. at 2211. “A university’s goals cannot be elusory or amorphous—they must be sufficiently measurable to permit judicial scrutiny of the policies adopted to reach them.” Id. The Court also noted that the asserted goals of UT’s affirmative action program “mirror” those approved in earlier cases (for example, ending stereotypes and promoting cross-racial understanding). Id. at 2211. - 27 - Id. at 2211–13. The Court further emphasized that the fact that race allegedly plays a minor role in UT admissions, given that approximately seventy-five percent of the incoming class is admitted under the ten percent plan, shows that the challenged use of race in determining the composition of the rest of the incoming class is narrowly tailored,
