---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/personal-loans-what-to-know-before-you-apply/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:20.956291+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:58 GMT
---
may need to borrow a higher amount to account for the fee. Example: Let's say you need to borrow $10,000, and the lender charges a 5% origination fee. Simply divide $10,000 by 0.95 to get roughly $10,527, which is the amount you need to borrow to cover the fee and still get a $10,000 loan disbursement. Learn more: How Much Can I Borrow With a Personal Loan? 3. Calculate an Estimated Monthly Payment Once you know how much you need, research personal loan interest rates to get an estimate of what you might qualify for based on your credit profile. Then, use a personal loan calculator to calculate your monthly payments and total interest charges over the life of the loan. Running the numbers can help you determine whether you can afford the payments on the amount you want to borrow and give you an idea of the total cost. Example: Let's say you want to borrow $10,000 and, because you have a solid credit history, you believe you can qualify for an interest rate of around 10%. With a three-year repayment term, your monthly payment would be $332.67. Alternatively, a five-year repayment term would give you a monthly payment of $212.47. Personal loan calculator 4. Get Prequalified With Multiple Lenders You may be tempted to just apply with the bank or credit union with which you already have a financial relationship. However, while it can be helpful to have all of your finances under one proverbial roof, you may be able to save more money with a different lender. The good news is that many of the best personal loans offer prequalification. This allows you to view and compare rate quotes with a soft credit inquiry, which won't impact your credit score. The process typically only takes a few minutes, so try to get prequalified with at least three to five lenders to get a good sample of offers. Tip: Lenders who seem too good to be true often are. If they require an upfront payment or guarantee approval, it's a strong sign of a scam. 5. Compare All Loan Terms While a personal loan's interest rate is the most important factor to consider, it's also crucial that you consider other loan terms, including: Credit score requirements: Not all lenders disclose their minimum credit score requirement publicly. However, you can get a sense of your approval odds and how your credit score might influence your loan terms by getting prequalified. - Repayment terms: Personal loans may come with terms ranging from one to seven years, but some lenders offer more flexibility than others. - Fees: Personal loans typically don't come with application fees or prepayment penalties, but some lenders charge origination fees. In some cases, the fee can be as high as 12% of the loan amount. If you have great credit, try to focus on lenders with no origination fees. - Loan restrictions: You can generally use a personal loan for nearly anything, but some lenders may spell out some limitations. For example, you may be prohibited from paying for college expenses or buying investments. What's more, some lenders may only offer loans for specific purposes, such as debt consolidation. - Funding time: Once you're approved, most lenders will fund your loan within a few days. But if your need for cash is urgent, try to find lenders that offer next-day or possibly even same-day funding. If you're consolidating debt, check to see if the lender is able to make a direct payment to your creditors. - Discounts: Some lenders offer an interest rate discount if you set up automatic payments or if you have an existing relationship with the financial institution. Just keep in mind that lenders may incorporate those discounts into your quote. - 6. Choose a Lender and Apply Once you've decided which lender has
