---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution-conan/article-1/section-4/clause-1/states-and-elections-clause
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:09:24.381205+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 06 Mar 2025 19:37:48 GMT
---
party primaries); Roudebush v. Hartke, 405 U.S. 15, 25 (1972) (recount for Senatorial election); Munro v. Socialist Workers Party, 479 U.S. 189 (1986) (requirement that minor party candidate demonstrate substantial support—1% of votes cast in the primary election—before being placed on ballot for general election). The Court, however, has held that courts should not modify election rules if the election is imminent and “'[n]o bright line separates permissible election-related regulation from unconstitutional infringements.’” Purcell v. Gonzalez, 549 U.S. 1, 5 (2006) (per curiam) (quoting Timmons v. Twin Cities Area New Party, 520 U.S. 351, 359 (1997)). In Purcell v. Gonzalez, the Court observed that “the imminence of the election and the inadequate time to resolve the factual disputes” required the Court to “of necessity allow the election to proceed without an injunction suspending the voter identification rules.” Purcell, 549 U.S. at 5–6. See also Republican Nat’l Comm. v. Democratic Nat’l Comm., No. 19A1016, slip op. (U.S. Apr. 2020) (per curiam) (noting that “lower federal courts should ordinarily not alter the election rules on the eve of the election” ) (citing Purcell v. Gonzalez, 549 U.S. 1 (2006) (per curiam); Frank v. Walker, 574 U.S. 929 (2014); Veasey v. Perry, 574 U.S. 951 (2014)). - 10 - U.S. Term Limits, Inc. v. Thornton, 514 U.S. 779, 835 (1995) - 11 - Foster v. Love, 522 U.S. 67, 69 (1997) (explaining that the Elections Clause “is a default provision; it invests the State with responsibility for the mechanics of congressional elections, but only so far as Congress declines to preempt state legislative choices” ); see id. at 74 (holding that a Louisiana statute that deemed the winner of the primary to be the winner of the general election void and preempted by federal law which set the date of the election for federal offices). - 12 - U.S. Term Limits, Inc. v. Thornton, 514 U.S. 779, 832 (1995) ( “Petitioners make the related argument that Amendment 73 merely regulates the “Manner” of elections and that the amendment is therefore a permissible exercise of state power under Article I, Section 4, Clause 1 (the Elections Clause) to regulate the “Times, Places and Manner” of elections. We cannot agree.” ). - 13 - Cook v. Gralike, 531 U.S. 510 (2001). - 14 - Thornton, 514 U.S. at 833–34. See also Burdick v. Takushi, 504 U.S. 428, 433 (1992) (states have an interest in “seeking to assure that elections are operated equitably and efficiently” ); Tashjian v. Republican Party of Conn., 479 U.S. 208, 217 (1986) ( “the power to regulate the time, place, and manner of elections does not justify, without more, the abridgment of fundamental rights.” ); Anderson v. Celebrezze, 460 U.S. 780, 788 n.9 (1983) (states may adopt “generally applicable and evenhanded restrictions that protect the integrity and reliability of the electoral process itself.” ). - 15 - Rucho v. Common Cause, No. 18-422, slip op. (U.S. June 2019). See also Arizona v. Inter Tribal Council of Ariz., Inc., 570 U.S. 1 (2013); Ex parte Siebold, 100 U.S. 371, 392 (1880) ( “The power of Congress . . . is paramount, and may be exercised at any time, and to any extent which it deems expedient.” ). - 16 - Shaw v. Reno, 509 U.S. 630 (1993); see also Wesberry v. Sanders, 376 U.S. 1 (1964); Wright v. Rockefeller, 376 U.S. 52 (1964); Baker v. Carr, 369 U.S. 186 (1962); Gomillion v. Lightfoot, 364 U.S. 339 (1960); Colegrove v. Green, 328 U.S. 549 (1946); Wood v. Broom, 287 U.S. 1 (1932). - 17 - Rucho v. Common Cause, No. 18-422, slip op. at 29 (U.S. June 2019). - 18 - Id. at 7. The Court observed that “[a]mong the political question cases the Court has identified are those that lack ‘judicially discoverable and manageable standards for resolving [them].’” Id. (quoting Baker v.
