---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-debt-consolidation/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:38.673726+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:20 GMT
---
and worked to spend within your means, you're less likely to repeat your mistakes after consolidation. - Consider alternatives to debt consolidation if: You want to pay off lower-interest debt. If you have another type of debt you want to pay off, such as a mortgage, auto loan or student loan, look into refinancing that debt for better terms instead of including it in your consolidation. - You have a bad credit score. You'll have a difficult time getting approved for a lower interest rate than what you're currently paying unless your credit is in good shape. - You're looking for a temporary fix. Debt consolidation can provide some relief on interest charges and monthly payments. However, if you don't have a long-term plan to eliminate debt, you could just be delaying an inevitable reckoning. - You haven't addressed your overspending. Consolidating debt doesn't fix the underlying problem behind your high credit card balances. If there's a possibility that you'll rack up more debt on the original cards, figure that out before proceeding. - Review Your Credit Before Applying for Debt Consolidation In many cases, you can get prequalified for a personal loan or a credit card. But to make sure you have all the information you need to evaluate your options, check your credit score and credit report for free with Experian. In addition to knowing where you stand, you'll also be able to pinpoint areas of your credit profile that need some work and make some improvements before you start the consolidation process. Find out what debts you owe Your free credit report lists all your debts, such as credit card balances and loans, helping you create a plan to tackle your debt and improve your financial health. Review your creditAbout the author Ben Luthi has worked in financial planning, banking and auto finance, and writes about all aspects of money. His work has appeared in Time, Success, USA Today, Credit Karma, NerdWallet, Wirecutter and more. Read more from Ben
