---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-identity-theft/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:27.402047+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:23 GMT
---
What Is Identity Theft? Quick Answer Identity theft occurs when someone steals your personal information and uses it to steal your money, open credit accounts, file tax returns, make health insurance claims and more without your consent. Fortunately, there are many things you can do to protect yourself. Identity theft is when someone steals your personal information and uses it without your permission. Fraudsters may use your information to access your financial accounts, open bank and credit card accounts, file tax returns and more. In 2023 alone, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) received more than 1 million reports of identity theft. There's no way to inoculate yourself against identity theft completely. But if you're diligent in learning how your information can be at risk and what fraudsters can do with it, you'll be better equipped to protect your data and act quickly if someone does manage to steal it. What Is Identity Theft? Identity theft is a broad term that applies anytime someone steals your personal or financial information and uses it without your permission. Identity thieves may attempt to steal many types of your information, including your: Name and address - Driver's license, passport or Social Security number - Credit card or bank account numbers - Health insurance account numbers - Due to the nature of technology and the internet, your personal information is always at risk. If you're not carefully monitoring your credit file, you may not notice you've been victimized until the damage is already done. Types of Identity Theft Three of the most common types of identity theft are financial, medical and child identity theft. Within each of those categories, there are different ways a criminal can take advantage of you. Financial Identity Theft Financial identity theft involves unauthorized access to existing financial accounts or the creation of new accounts in your name. For example, a thief may steal your wallet or purse and use your credit card to make purchases, obtain your bank account details and drain your accounts, or get ahold of your Social Security number and open a new credit card in your name or file a fraudulent tax return. Medical Identity Theft With medical identity theft, a criminal may see a health care provider, buy prescription drugs or medical devices and submit insurance claims to Medicare or your health insurance company without your permission. Typically, medical identity theft occurs if a criminal gets their hands on your personal information, such as your name, Social Security number and health insurance ID. Child Identity Theft Identity thieves engage in child identity theft when they use the personal information of a minor to obtain credit, find employment or engage in other illegal activities in the child's name. Child identity theft can be particularly pernicious because children typically have no need to check their credit reports. As a result, it can go undetected for several years. Learn more: 20 Different Types of Identity Theft and Fraud How Does Identity Theft Happen? There are several different ways identity thieves can get ahold of your personal and financial information. Here are some of the most commonly used methods: Data breaches: A data breach happens when someone gains access to an organization's consumer data without authorization. The most common types of information stolen in data breaches include full names, Social Security numbers and credit card numbers. - Unsecure browsing: For the most part, you can browse the internet safely, especially if you stick to well-known websites. But if you share any information on an unsecure website or a website that's been compromised by hackers, you could be putting your sensitive information directly in the hands of a thief. - Dark web marketplaces: The dark web is a hidden network of websites that aren't accessible by normal browsers. People who visit the dark web use special software to mask their
