---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/score-basics/600-credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:14.185971+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:17 GMT
---
600 Credit Score: Is it Good or Bad? Your score falls within the range of scores, from 580 to 669, considered Fair. A 600 FICOÂ® ScoreÎ is below the average credit score. Some lenders see consumers with scores in the Fair range as having unfavorable credit, and may decline their credit applications. Other lenders that specialize in "subprime" lending, are happy to work with consumers whose scores fall in the Fair range, but they charge relatively high interest rates and fees. 17% of all consumers have Scores in the Fair range (580-669). Approximately 27% of consumers with credit scores in the Fair range are likely to become seriously delinquent in the future. How to improve your 600 Credit Score Think of your FICOÂ® Score of 600 as a springboard to higher scores. Raising your credit score is a gradual process, but it's one you can begin right away. 87% of U.S. consumers' FICOÂ® Scores are higher than 600. You share a 600 FICOÂ® Score with tens of thousands of other Americans, but none of them has that score for quite the same reasons you do. For insights into the specific causes of your score, and ideas on how to improve it, get copies of your credit reports and check your FICOÂ® Score. Included with the score, you will find score-improvement suggestions based on your unique credit history. If you use those guidelines to adopt better credit habits, your score may begin to increase, bringing better credit opportunities. Moving past a Fair credit score While everyone with a FICOÂ® Score of 600 gets there by his or her own unique path, people with scores in the Fair range often have experienced credit-management challenges. The credit reports of 98% of Americans with a FICOÂ® Score of 600 include late payments of 30 days past due. Credit reports of individuals with Fair credit cores in the Fair range often list late payments (30 days or more past due) and collections accounts, which indicate a creditor has given up trying to recover an unpaid debt and sold the obligation to a third-party collections agent. Some people with FICOÂ® Scores in the Fair category may even have major negative events on their credit reports, such as foreclosures or bankruptciesâevents that severely lower scores. Full recovery from these setbacks can take up to 10 years, but you can take steps now to get your score moving in the right direction. Studying the report that accompanies your FICOÂ® Score can help you identify the events that lowered your score. If you correct the behaviors that led to those events, work steadily to improve your credit, you can lay the groundwork to build up a better credit score. The basis for your credit score Credit scores such as the FICOÂ® Score are based on your debt-management history, as recorded in your credit file. The scores are basically a summation of the way you've handled credit and bill payment. Good credit habits tend to promote higher credit scores, while poor or erratic habits tend to bring lower scores. Here's a more detailed breakdown of the specific factors that influence your FICOÂ® Score: Public Information: If bankruptcies or other public records appear on your credit report, they can have severe negative impacts on your credit score. Among consumers with a FICOÂ® Score of 600, the average credit card debt is $2,714. Payment history. Delinquent accounts and late or missed payments can harm your credit score. A history of paying your bills on time will help your credit score. It's pretty straightforward, and it's the single biggest influence on your credit score, accounting for as much as 35% of your FICOÂ® Score. Credit usage rate. To determine your credit utilization ratio, add up the balances on your revolving credit accounts (such as credit cards) and divide the result by your total
