---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/enforcement/enforcement-by-the-numbers/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:18.594838+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Enforcement by the numbers As of January 30, 2025, CFPB enforcement actions have resulted in: $19.7 billion in consumer relief Approximate monetary compensation, principal reductions, canceled debts, and other consumer relief ordered. 195 million people eligible for relief Estimated consumers or consumer accounts eligible to receive relief. $5 billion in civil money penalties Approximate civil money penalties ordered. Summary data on all the Bureau’s public enforcement actions and ordered consumer relief To increase transparency of the Bureau’s public enforcement actions, we post summary data on all the Bureau’s public enforcement actions. The summary data is updated at the end of each calendar year. Enforcement actions by year This interactive graph shows the total number of CFPB public enforcement actions filed each year from our inception to the present. Hover over the bars to view the total number of public enforcement actions per year. Date published: January 2025 Download: CSV file Consumer relief and civil money penalties by year This interactive graph shows the total consumer relief and civil money penalties ordered in CFPB public enforcement actions each year from the Bureau's inception to the present. Hover over the bars to view the total consumer relief (green) and total civil money penalties (navy) per year. Date published: January 2025 Download: CSV file Notes: These data reflect publicly available information for enforcement actions as of the date of publication. These data do not reflect non-publicly available information about consumer relief and penalties resulting from enforcement actions. Historically, the CFPB has reported non-public information in the aggregate, thereby protecting confidential information. Because these reported data are based on only publicly available data, totals of the data will differ from historic aggregated totals that included non-publicly available information. Additionally, because these data reflect ordered relief as of the date of publication, totals of these data may differ from historic aggregated totals to the extent final orders may have been vacated or otherwise modified. Page last modified @
