---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/best-ways-to-redeem-credit-card-rewards/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:36.587621+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:58 GMT
---
loyalty program. While you might have many options for using your rewards, booking a flight or hotel stay are often the best. Still, there are a few tips to keep in mind. Long Hotel Stays Although you'll need a lot of points to book several nights in a row, some hotel loyalty programs, such as Hilton Honors and Marriott Bonvoy, will give you a fifth night free when you redeem your points. Saving up for these longer redemptions can increase the value of your points, especially when you're booking higher-end hotels. Luxury Travel You can generally get the most value per point or mile when you redeem rewards for business or first-class flights and stays at luxury hotels, especially when the program doesn't base the number of points or miles you need on the current price. The downside is these bookings generally still require a lot of rewards, which can take a long time to earn, and there might be limited availability for reward bookings. Book Flights on Partner Airlines Many airline cards let you use your miles or points to book a flight on a partner airline. Sometimes, this can lead to great redemptions, particularly if you're flying abroad. However, it can be hard to find availability, as airlines might not release a lot of award seats to their partners. The Best Ways to Redeem General Travel Points and Miles You can use travel credit cards and certain cash back cards to get points in flexible rewards programs, such as American Express Membership Rewards, Capital One Venture Miles and Chase Ultimate Rewards. These programs offer many redemption options, and you should aim to get at least $1 per 100 miles or points you redeem. However, the best redemption options tend to fall into a few categories that offer even better value. Book Travel Many of the programs have travel portals where you can use your rewards to book travel. You generally get 1 cent per point or mile, but sometimes you can get more. While you can book various types of travel, including rental cars and cruises, you might not find every option. For instance, Southwest flights and some boutique hotels might not appear in the results. Some cards let you use your rewards to offset previous travel purchases rather than book travel, which can help you avoid these drawbacks. Transfer Your Points and Book Reward Travel Many programs let you transfer your points to partner airline and hotel loyalty programs. Sometimes you can get much more than 1 cent per point if you transfer and book award travel, especially if you're booking luxury travel. You can also compare the cost of paying for a flight or stay using your points versus booking an award trip to see which will be best. Exchange for Gift Cards Although the programs are flexible, you might get less than 1 cent per point if you want cash back or if you book certain types of travel. If you're looking for cash, but won't get a good cash back rate, a workaround could be to opt for a gift card. Although you may need to meet minimum redemption requirements, gift cards are usually available for 1 cent per point, and sometimes you can redeem fewer points for selecting certain gift cards. For example, if a $25 gift card usually costs 2,500 points, there may be offers that only require 2,000 points. Think Twice Before Redeeming Rewards for These Options Cash back and travel tend to be the best redemption options, but you might be tempted by some of the alternatives, such as exchanging your rewards for merchandise or using them to shop online. But often, these aren't great options. You often receive less than 1 cent per pointâsometimes just half as muchâusing other alternatives. You also can't take advantage of other savings or
