---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/best-crypto-exchanges-5071855
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:08:08.957576+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
their hands. Best for Bitcoin Crypto.com is also our choice for Bitcoin traders and investors due to its reasonable fee structure and excellent security infrastructure, which is important to many Bitcoin investors and users. In addition, Crypto.com provides crypto traders with Bitcoin options and futures. Pros & Cons Pros Allows Bitcoin options and futures Reasonable fee structure and a good selection of cryptocurrency Excellent mobile platform and debit card program Cons Available in fewer than 100 countries Only offers chat service for assistance Crypto.com only provides access to a hot wallet Overview Crypto.com, headquartered in Singapore's Central Region, boasts an impressive customer base of over 150 million users across more than 100 countries, which isn’t bad for a company founded in 2016. The main reason why Crypto.com is so popular goes far beyond its marketing campaigns. It's one of the best crypto exchanges for mobile-first traders and Bitcoin holders. Mobile users considering Crypto.com can expect a sleek, fully intuitive platform that offers more than convenience. Mobile users have access to more than 400 cryptocurrencies. Depending on the eligible cryptocurrency, users can earn rewards through Crypto.com’s Earn or Staking programs. In addition to buying, selling, and using cryptocurrency, as well as trading derivatives, Crypto.com also provides its mobile users with sophisticated trading features that allow them to automate their trades. Furthermore, Crypto.com offers access to its Visa debit card, a crypto-connected card that enables users to easily spend their crypto to buy goods and services on the private market. Along with its mobile capabilities, Crypto.com is also best for Bitcoin. The platform offers a wide array of trading, from derivatives to regular long-term investments. The company has a reasonable fee structure, which also applies to its mobile platform. However, depending on their 30-day trade volume, users can expect maker fees to range from 0.08% to 0.25% and taker fees to range from 0.18% to 0.50%. VIP users who hold a tiered amount of Cronos (CRO) can enjoy additional benefits, such as discounts on maker/taker fees and debit card rewards. Bitcoin traders will also have access to Bitcoin options and futures, which is an important feature for traders and investors alike. Before users sign up for an account, they should consider the downsides. For instance, Crypto.com is not readily available in many countries. Before committing to opening an account, you should check to see if Crypto.com legally operates in your geographical location. While Crypto.com has an excellent support center to help users resolve issues on their own, it only provides access to a live chat feature for further assistance. Best for Altcoins : BitMart Simply Recipes / Alison Bickel. BitMart Minimum deposit: Not publicly disclosedMaker fees: Range between 0.015% to 0.6%Taker fees: Range between 0.02% to 0.6%Available cryptocurrencies: 1,700+ Open Account (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It Bitmart, which offers over 1,700 cryptocurrencies, is our top choice as the best crypto exchange for altcoins. While the exchange lacks key trading features, it's an excellent platform for buying cryptocurrency that traders wouldn't usually have access to on other exchanges. Pros & Cons Pros Access to over 1,700 cryptocurrencies Allows social trading through its copy-trading feature BitMart Academy provides excellent educational resources Cons Does not display its security infrastructure Complex fee structure Only supports crypto deposits to fund account Overview BitMart, founded in 2017 and headquartered in New York, N.Y., is our top choice for altcoins due to its accessibility to over 1,700 tradable cryptocurrencies. While still offering access to the most important coins on the market, such as Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Solana, it provides other coins that may be difficult to find on other exchanges. It's important to note that cryptocurrency poses significant risks even with established digital coins. Smaller, less established coins pose even more risks, with liquidity and market manipulation being a serious concern for crypto holders. BitMart
