---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
Fair Credit Reporting Act 15 U.S.C § 1681 Revised May 2023 As a public service, the staff of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has prepared the following complete text of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), 15 U.S.C. § 1681 et seq. Although staff generally followed the format of the U.S. Code as published by the Government Printing Office, the format of this text does differ in minor ways from the Code (and from West’s U.S. Code Annotated). For example, this version uses FCRA section numbers (§§ 601-629) in the headings. (The relevant U.S. Code citation is included with each section heading and each reference to the FCRA in the text.) Although the staff has made every effort to transcribe the statutory material accurately, this compendium is intended only as a convenience for the public and not a substitute for the text in the U.S. Code. This version of the FCRA includes the amendments to the FCRA set forth in the Consumer Credit Reporting Reform Act of 1996 (Public Law 104- 208, the Omnibus Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1997, Title II, Subtitle D, Chapter 1), Section 311 of the Intelligence Authorization for Fiscal Year 1998 (Public Law 105-107), the Consumer Reporting Employment Clarification Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-347), Section 506 of the Gramm- Leach-Bliley Act (Public Law 106-102), Sections 358(g) and 505(c) of the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (USA PATRIOT Act) (Public Law 107-56), the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (FACT Act) (Public Law 108-159), Section 719 of the Financial Services Regulatory Relief Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-351), Section 743 (Div. D, Title VII) of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-161), the Credit and Debit Card Receipt Clarification Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-241), and Sections 205 and 302 of the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure (CARD) Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-24), the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA) (Title X of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Public Law 111-203), and the Red Flag Program Clarification Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-203), and Sections 301, 302, and 602 of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (Public Law 115-174), the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283), and the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81). The Commission website posted this document on May 4, 2023 . The provisions added to the FCRA by the FACT Act became effective at different times. In some cases, the provision includes its own effective date. In other cases, the FACT Act provides that the effective dates be prescribed by the FTC and Federal Reserve Board. See 16 CFR Part 602 (69 Fed. Reg. 6526; February 11, 2004) (69 Fed. Reg. 29061; May 20, 2004). The provisions added to the FCRA by the CFPA became effective on July 21, 2011, the “designated transfer date” on which the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection assumed certain duties specified by the CFPA. See 75 Fed. Reg. 57252 (Sept. 20, 2010). Contents § 601. Short title ............................................ 1 § 602. Congressional findings and statement of purpose [15 U.S.C. § 1681] ...... 1 § 603. Definitions; rules of construction [15 U.S.C. § 1681a] ............... 1 § 604. Permissible purposes of consumer reports [15 U.S.C. § 1681b] ........ 10 § 605. Requirements relating to information contained in consumer reports [15 U.S.C. § 1681c] .................................... 21 § 605A. Identity theft prevention; fraud alerts and active duty alerts [15 U.S.C. § 1681c-1] .................................. 26 § 605B. Block of information resulting from identity theft [15 U.S.C. § 1681c-2] ..39 § 605C. Adverse information in cases of trafficking [15 U.S.C. § 1681c-3] ...... 41 § 606. Disclosure of investigative consumer
