---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-credit-score-do-you-need-to-get-a-rewards-card/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:21.743902+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:12 GMT
---
What Credit Score Do You Need to Get a Rewards Card? In general, you need a good to excellent credit score to get a rewards credit card. According to the 850-point FICO scoring model, the one credit card issuers most commonly use, a good score is 670 to 739. A score of 740 or above is considered very good to exceptional. The higher your credit score, the more likely it is you'll qualify for premium rewards cardsâand the better the perks, like intro bonuses and airport lounge access, you'll get access to. Here's what you should know about credit score requirements for rewards cards, and how to reach them if your scores aren't quite there yet. You Need a Good to Excellent Credit Score to Get a Rewards Card Rewards credit cards come with major benefits, and to qualify for the privilege of using them, you'll need a credit score of 670 or higher. The closer your score is to 850, the more likely it is you'll be eligible for the cards with the most valuable perks. Credit card companies want your business if you have good or excellent credit, since they anticipate you'll be a trustworthy customer who won't miss payments. Rewards are a way they can entice you to sign up for a particular card, and to use that card for many of your purchases. If you have a fair or poor credit score, you're considered a greater risk to lenders, and issuers in turn may not be as interested in securing you as a rewards card customer. If you're not sure what your credit score is, there are lots of ways to find out. Check with your bank and current credit card issuers to see if they offer free credit score monitoring. Many websites also offer free credit scores if you register for an account, including Experian, which provides FICOÂ® ScoresÎ for free for free. Know that while a credit card issuer's decision-making will rely heavily on your credit scores, they look at additional factors, too, including your income and current debt load. You'll also need to be at least 21 years old to qualify; applicants between 18 and 20 must prove they earn an independent income. How to Find the Right Rewards Credit Card The best rewards card for you will have perks that align with your spending, and offer easy redemption options for your rewards. Some cards give you points for each purchase that you can use to buy flights and hotel stays; others give you cash back on what you buy, which can help reduce your credit card balance. Take time to analyze where most of your spending goes, what you want to get out of your new rewards card and which card will best help you reach your goals. For instance, do you spend a lot on travel or on meals out? Do you want a card with a straightforward rewards structure or one with varying rewards categories you can use to maximize your earnings? Earn rewards for your spending Consider Improving Your Credit Before Applying The perks of rewards cards could incentivize you to up your credit scoreâin addition to benefits like lower interest rates on loans and a potentially easier time qualifying for new credit. To improve your credit score, try these tactics: Put bills on autopay. Since payment history is the biggest contributor to your credit score, try not to miss even a single credit card, loan or utility bill payment. Set up automatic payments from your checking account so you never fall behind, but make sure your account has enough funds to avoid overdrawing it. - Cut down on debt. Your credit utilization, or the amount of available credit you're using compared with your credit limit, is the second most important element of your credit score. If you've been
