---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-make-a-budget/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:52.554527+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:47 GMT
---
How to Make a Budget Quick Answer The steps to make a budget include determining your income, calculating your monthly expenses, setting realistic goals, tracking your spending, picking a budgeting plan and sticking to your budget. Making a budget is one of the best ways to understand where your money goes every month and what changes you could make to help you reach your financial goals. There are several approaches to making a budget, and the right way to do it depends on your priorities, preferences and goals. Here are steps you can take when making a budget to ensure that it fits your lifestyle and financial objectives. 1. Determine Your Income If you get paid monthly or twice a month, this first step is straightforward because you may earn the same amount every month. If you're paid weekly or biweekly, though, you may earn more in some months than in others. In that case, you may choose to adjust your budget each month based on how many paychecks you're expecting. If you're self-employed or your wages tend to fluctuate, consider calculating your average income for the past three to six months. Focus on your take-home pay instead of your gross (pretax) income because that's the amount that actually winds up in your bank account. Example: Your gross income from your full-time job is $3,000 every two weeks. After taxes, insurance and 401(k) contributions, you bring home $2,000 every two weeks. That makes your monthly income $4,000 ($2,000 + $2,000). 2. Calculate Your Monthly Expenses Once you understand your income, you'll want to similarly run the numbers for your expenses. Start by taking a look at your bank and credit card statements over the past three to six months to get an idea of what you typically spend each month. Then break down those expenses into categories such as necessities and discretionary spending: Necessities: You can create as many or as few categories as you like. For example, you can group recurring monthly charges together or split them out into groups like rent, utilities and insurance. Also, try to account for expenses that don't recur monthly, such as insurance premiums, car registration renewals and tax bills. - Discretionary spending: With discretionary spending (your wants rather than your needs), it may be better to break down your categories more fully. For example, eating out and entertainment don't always go together, so you may want to calculate each amount individually. - The more comprehensive your expense categories are, the easier it will be to understand where your money is going and how to manage it better. At the same time, it can also get more complicated and challenging to keep track of each category. Find a good balance you can stick to that will keep you motivated and effective. Example: Your monthly necessities (housing, food, utilities, gas to get to work and car insurance) total $2,000. You typically spend around $750 per month on discretionary spending, such as eating out, clothing and entertainment. Your monthly expenses, then, total $2,750. Learn more: Budgeting for Needs vs. Wants 3. Set Realistic Goals Once you know how you've been spending your money, take some time to set goals for how you want to manage your money going forward. For example, if you're hoping to pay down your debt faster, set a goal for how much you'll put toward debt payments each month, then set goals to cut spending in certain categories to make sure it happens. It's crucial to be ambitious yet realistic with your goals. If you set your sights too high, it could be difficult to stay motivated when things don't work the way you want. Set specific, measurable, achievable, realistic and timely (SMART) goals that require you to stretch a little, but keep in mind that it can take time to develop
