---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/bankruptcy-how-it-works-types-and-consequences/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:24.695237+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
Debt That Can't Be Forgiven in Bankruptcy While bankruptcy can eliminate a lot of debt, it can't wipe the slate completely clean if you have certain types of unforgivable debt. Types of debt that bankruptcy can't eliminate include: Court-ordered alimony - Court-ordered child support - Reaffirmed debt - A federal tax lien for taxes owed to the U.S. government - Government fines, penalties or benefit overpayments - Court fines and penalties - Debt for personal injury caused while intoxicated - Debt for willful and malicious injuries to a person or property - Debt owed to certain tax-advantaged retirement plans - Debt for certain condominium or cooperative housing fees - Historically, it's been difficultâthough not impossibleâto discharge student loans in bankruptcy. However, changes made by the U.S. Department of Education in November 2022 have made the process much easier. In the first 10 months of the new process, 632 bankruptcy cases were filed that included federal student loans, and 99% of them received full or partial discharges, according to the U.S. Department of Justice. Consequences of Bankruptcy If your financial situation is dire, bankruptcy may be the only way to get the relief you need. However, there are several consequences to consider before you proceed. Loss of Property With Chapter 7 bankruptcy, you'll be required to liquidate some of your assets to repay your creditors. Even with Chapter 13 bankruptcy, you may need to sell off certain assets to afford your payments. If you include secured debt, such as a mortgage loan or auto loan, in your bankruptcy filing, you could also lose the property or vehicle you used as collateral for the debt. Credit Damage Your payment history is the most influential factor in your credit score, and filing for bankruptcy means you're unable to pay your debts in full. As a result, bankruptcy can have a drastic impact on your credit score. What's more, a Chapter 7 bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years from the filing dateâit's just seven years for Chapter 13. While a bankruptcy's negative impact can diminish over time, especially if you're vigilant about rebuilding your credit, it can still make it challenging to get approved for affordable credit options for several years after your filing has been discharged. Impact on Others If a loved one cosigned one of the loans you're including in your bankruptcy, they may be responsible for paying at least some of the debt. Some Debt May Remain As previously mentioned, not all debts are includable in a bankruptcy filing. While you may get some relief, you may not necessarily get a clean slate. Pros and Cons of Bankruptcy Although bankruptcy should only be considered as a last resort, it's not entirely a negative step. Before you file, it's important to consider both the advantages and disadvantages of bankruptcy and how they might impact your particular situation. Pros It stops collection efforts. If you're fielding aggressive collection calls, you've been sued for payment or you're subject to wage garnishment, filing for bankruptcy will stop all of these activities. - It can give you the relief you need. If you've exhausted all other alternatives, bankruptcy may be the only way to get the financial relief you're seeking. Depending on your situation, it could even give you a fresh financial start, albeit with some work ahead of you to rebuild credit. - You can get a repayment plan that works for you. If you've been unsuccessful in negotiating a restructured repayment plan with your creditors, bankruptcy may help you get a plan that works for your budget. - Cons It can ruin your credit. Although bankruptcy can make sense for your overall financial well-being, it can take several years to rebuild your credit history. As a result, you may need to put certain financial moves on hold until you can
