---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
security card issued by the Social Security Administration; S. 2155—36 (ii) a certified or official copy of a birth certificate issued by the entity authorized to issue the birth certificate; or (iii) a copy of a driver’s license, an identification card issued by the motor vehicle administration, or any other government issued identification. (2) Placement of security freeze for a protected consumer. (A) In general. Upon receiving a direct request from a protected consumer’s representative that a consumer reporting agency place a security freeze, and upon receiving sufficient proof of identification and sufficient proof of authority, the consumer reporting agency shall, free of charge, place the security freeze not later than – (i) in the case of a request that is by toll-free telephone or secure electronic means, 1 business day after receiving the request directly from the protected consumer’s representative; or (ii) in the case of a request that is by mail, 3 business days after receiving the request directly from the protected consumer’s representative. (B) Confirmation and additional information. Not later than 5 business days after placing a security freeze under subparagraph (A), a consumer reporting agency shall – (i) send confirmation of the placement to the protected consumer’s representative; and (ii) inform the protected consumer’s representative of the process by which the protected consumer may remove the security freeze, including a mechanism to authenticate the protected consumer’s representative. (C) Creation of file. If a consumer reporting agency does not have a file pertaining to a protected consumer when the consumer reporting agency receives a direct request under subparagraph (A), the consumer reporting agency shall create a record for the protected consumer. § 605A - 15 U.S.C. § 1681c-1 37 (3) Prohibition on release of record or file of protected consumer. After a security freeze has been placed under paragraph (2)(A), and unless the security freeze is removed in accordance with this subsection, a consumer reporting agency may not release the protected consumer’s consumer report, any information derived from the protected consumer’s consumer report, or any record created for the protected consumer. (4) Removal of a protected consumer security freeze. (A) In general. A consumer reporting agency shall remove a security freeze placed on the consumer report of a protected consumer only in the following cases: (i) Upon the direct request of the protected consumer’s representative. (ii) Upon the direct request of the protected consumer, if the protected consumer is not under the age of 16 years at the time of the request. (iii) The security freeze was placed due to a material misrepresentation of fact by the protected consumer’s representative. (B) Notice if removal not by request. If a consumer reporting agency removes a security freeze under subparagraph (A)(iii), the consumer reporting agency shall notify the protected consumer’s representative in writing prior to removing the security freeze. (C) Removal of freeze by request. Except as provided in subparagraph (A)(iii), a security freeze shall remain in place until a protected consumer’s representative or protected consumer described in subparagraph (A)(ii) directly requests that the security freeze be removed. Upon receiving a direct request from the protected consumer’s representative or protected consumer described in subparagraph (A)(ii) that a consumer reporting agency remove a security freeze, and upon receiving sufficient proof of identification and sufficient proof of authority, the consumer reporting agency shall, free of charge, remove the security freeze not later than – (i) in the case of a request that is by toll-free telephone or secure electronic means, 1 hour after receiving the request for removal; or 38§ 605A - 15 U.S.C. § 1681c-1 (ii) in the case of a request that is by mail, 3 business days after receiving the request for removal. (D) Temporary removal of security freeze. Upon receiving a direct request from a protected consumer or a protected consumer’s representative under subparagraph (A)(i), if the
