---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-debt-relief-companies-8763179
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:00.590678+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
off your debts for less than what you owe. The fee for their services is usually a percentage of your settled debt. For example, if the fee is 15% and your settled debt is $2,000, your cost would be $300. Some companies might base their fees on your initial debt. However, your debt relif costs are not limited to that fee. You'll need to establish a savings account from which your debts will be paid off, and you will be responsible for the setup fee and any other fees associated with that account. The debt relief company will use the funds you add to that savings account to pay off your creditors. Debt settlement companies cannot charge you any fees until they have settled your debt, so they won't agree to work with you until after a consultation that determines their services are a good fit for your situation. You may be charged initial fees for opening the savings account, however; these fees can be charged because they come from the bank providing the savings account, rather than the debt relief company. Who Is Debt Relief Good For? Debt relief options may be worth considering for those who can't keep up with their monthly payments but still have enough income or cash on hand to settle their debts and pay the fees charged by a debt relief company. It's also best for those who are prepared to handle the hit their credit scores will take. If creditors are settling your debts for less than what you initially owed, you should expect your FICO scores to go down, whether you are working with a debt relief company or not. Tip Nonprofit credit counselors can provide free or low-cost advice for people struggling with debt. We recommend seeking credit counseling before agreeing to work with a debt settlement company. Credit counselors offer free initial consultations, and they can help you understand your debt and your options before committing to a debt relief plan. How Fast Can I Get Debt Relief? Different forms of debt relief have different potential timelines. When it comes to debt settlement, companies say it typically takes 24–48 months to complete the program. The actual amount of time it takes will depend on the amount of debt you have, how quickly you can build up a settlement fund, the willingness of your creditors to negotiate, and the negotiation skills of the debt relief company. The faster you can build up a settlement fund and the less your creditors ask for, the sooner you can be out of debt. Debt relief through credit counseling is similar. Credit counselors can negotiate lower interest rates for you, which helps prevent your debt from growing as fast, but they can't usually reduce the amount of debt you owe. So, the amount of time it takes to get out of debt depends mostly on fast you can pay it off. Debt relief through bankruptcy may be completed relatively quickly. Chapter 7 bankruptcy, which doesn't require repayment, may take three to six months from filing to discharge of debts. Chapter 13 bankruptcy, which does require a repayment plan, may take 36 to 60 months to finish repayment. Common Debt Relief Terms to Understand If you are considering working with a debt relief company, you should familiarize yourself with these common terms: Creditor: A creditor is the institution that holds your debt. It is who you owe money to. Creditors will try to collect on the debt you owe, even if you are working with a debt relief company, but they may be willing to accept less than the full amount. Unsecured debt: If you are working with a debt relief company, it is for unsecured debt, which is not tied to any physical property. A car loan or a home mortgage, for example, is considered
