---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-credit-limit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:05.729222+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:16 GMT
---
credit report and divide it by the account's credit limit. Example: A credit card that has a $1,000 balance and a $4,000 credit limit has a 25% utilization ratio. To calculate your overall utilization, use all the balances and credit limits for your credit cardsâand other revolving accountsâon your credit reports. What Is a Good Credit Limit? Ideally, you can qualify for a credit card with a high enough limit that you can use the card for everyday spending while maintaining a low utilization rateâunder 10% is a helpful rule of thumb. In other words, if you tend to spend $2,000 on monthly card expenses, you might want a card with a $20,000 limit. Card issuers usually report your balance several weeks before your bill's due date, which means you can have a high utilization ratio even if you pay your bill in full each month. However, it might be difficult to qualify for such a high-limit account, particularly for younger and low-income cardholders. In general, older cardholders have higher credit limits. Change in Average Credit Card Limits by Generation Generation | 2023 | 2024 | Change in Credit Card Limit | Change in Credit Card Balance | ---|---|---|---|---| Generation Z | $12,899 | $14,195 | +10% | +5.9% | ---|---|---|---|---| Millennials | $27,533 | $29,665 | +7.7% | +6.3% | ---|---|---|---|---| Generation X | $38,665 | $40,551 | +4.9% | +4.8% | ---|---|---|---|---| Baby boomers | $41,906 | $42,824 | +2.2% | +1.7% | ---|---|---|---|---| Silent Generation | $32,812 | $32,889 | +0.2% | +0.5% | ---|---|---|---|---| Source: Experian data from Q3 of each year Alternatively, having several credit cards could increase your overall available credit. Perhaps you use a rewards card for everyday spending, and have a low-rate card or two for emergencies. Keeping credit cards open can also help you maintain a low utilization rate, which is why closing cards is generally a bad idea, unless you tend to overspend or the card has an annual fee. How to Increase Your Credit Limit There are several ways to increase your credit limit: Request a limit increase. Use your online account, app or call the card issuer and ask for a credit limit increase. But review the terms first, because sometimes the request will result in a hard credit inquiry. - Update your income. Update your account information with your new annual income whenever you get a raise or start earning extra money. Card issuers may proactively increase your credit limit when your income rises. - Improve your credit score. Card issuers also might increase your credit limits if your credit scores improve. - Move credit limits. You may be able to transfer credit limits between cards if you have several credit cards from the same issuer. - Higher credit limits can help you maintain a low utilization rate and give you enough spending power to make larger purchases and cover emergency expenses. However, higher credit limits can be dangerous if you tend to overspend. Why Your Credit Limit Might Have Changed For many card issuers, managing credit limits is an ongoing process. They periodically evaluate their goals and the economic environment, and will frequently review your credit reports to see how you're using credit. For example, the company may lower your credit limit if: Your credit score drops - You miss payments - You take on more debt (including debts from other creditors) - You don't use the account often - Your spending behavior changes - Your income decreases - On the other hand, creditors may increase your credit limit when: Your credit score improves - Your income increases (and you report the increase) - You have a good history of paying your bills on time - You request a credit limit increase - Some actions can be interpreted differently depending on the circumstances. For example, a
