---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-fraud-alert/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:45.171574+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:16 GMT
---
years. The extended fraud alert instructs creditors to contact you by phone or in person before issuing credit in your name. - Active-duty alert: Only available to active-duty service members, these alerts expire after a year and ask creditors to have a reasonable belief that they know the identity of the person making a request. - You can also renew initial, active-duty and extended fraud alerts up to three months before they expire. But for active-duty and extended fraud alerts, you may need to resubmit verification documents proving that you qualify for the alert. Even if you don't add a fraud alert to your credit report, you can opt out of receiving prescreened offers for credit and insurance on OptOutPrescreen.com. But some people prefer receiving these offers as they might get offers that aren't available to the general public. Learn more: What You Can Do to Avoid Identity and Credit Fraud Fraud Alert vs. Credit Freeze You also have the right to place a security freeze, also called a credit freeze, to limit access to your credit report. It can help stop credit fraud because creditors that want to check your credit as part of an application review process won't be allowed access to your credit report. Unlike the various types of fraud alerts, you'll need to unfreeze, or thaw, your credit reports if you want to apply for credit with a freeze in place. Additionally, you'll need to freeze and unfreeze each of your credit reports individually. Fraud alerts and credit freezes can both be helpful, but compare and understand what they do창and what they don't do창before adding them to your credit reports. Fraud Alerts | Credit Freezes | ---|---| Cost | Free | Free | ---|---|---| What it does | Asks creditors to verify your identity or contact you before issuing credit | Limits access to your credit report, which may prevent creditors from issuing credit | ---|---|---| What it doesn't do | Restrict access to your credit report or prevent fraud that doesn't require a credit check | Require creditors to contact you or prevent fraud that doesn't require a credit check | ---|---|---| Request passed to the other two bureaus | Yes | No | ---|---|---| Expires | After 1 or 7 years | Never | ---|---|---| You can apply for credit without removing it | Yes | No | ---|---|---| Impact on your credit score | None | None | ---|---|---| When Does It Make Sense to Get a Fraud Alert? In general, it makes sense to place a fraud alert if you believe you are or may become the victim of credit fraud or identity theft. More specifically, you might want to add a fraud alert to your credit after: Your information was compromised in a data breach - Your wallet or documents with personal information were lost or stolen - You suspect someone is using your identity - You're an active-duty service member - You reported identity theft or credit fraud to the police or FTC - Considering recent data breaches have exposed potentially billions of Social Security numbers, it may be safe to assume that fraudsters and scammers may have access to your personal information. You can also place a fraud alert and freeze your credit if you want extra protection. And although managing freezes can be more work, they might provide more protection than a fraud alert. Learn more: Here's What You Should Do After a Data Breach How to Place a Fraud Alert Requesting a fraud alert is always free. For all three types of alerts, you only need to submit the request to one of the three major credit bureaus창Experian, TransUnion or Equifax창and it will forward your request on to the other two. You can use Experian's Fraud Alert Center to add an initial or active-duty alert to your
