---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-to-do-if-information-is-found-on-dark-web/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:10.770367+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:30 GMT
---
What to Do if Your Information Is Found on the Dark Web Quick Answer If a dark web scan reveals your information is available online, you should immediately take these steps to secure your info: Data breaches are so commonplace that there's a good chance some of your personal information has already found its way onto the dark web. This might include your: Name, address and phone number - Social Security number - Emails, usernames and passwords - Medical records and account numbers - Financial account numbers and details - Driver's license and passport information - Criminals can use this information in a variety of ways, such as impersonating you, creating a fake identity, opening credit accounts in your name or getting a medical procedure using your insurance. You can check to see if and what information is out there with a free dark web scan. And while there might not be a simple way to get your information removed from the dark web, you can take measures to protect your accounts and identity. Here's what to do if your information is found on the dark web. 1. Change Your Passwords or Set Up Passkeys One of the first things you can do is change any potentially compromised passwords to help keep people from taking over your accounts. If you use the same passwordâor similar password variationsâfor multiple accounts, you may want to change the other accounts' passwords as well. Create a new strong password that meets the following criteria: Is unique to the website - Doesn't contain common words - Doesn't share characteristics with your other passwords - Is longer than the website's minimum allowed character count - Consider using a password manager to create and store complex passwords. You then only need to remember one complex password to access your password manager. Many of these apps can also automatically fill in your passwords after you log in. Additionally, you might be able to use a password manager to create a passkey for your accounts. These are an alternative to passwords that may be more secure. 2. Enable Multifactor Authentication on All Your Accounts Multifactor authentication (MFA) requires you to use two or more forms of authentication to access your account. Your username and password are usually the first form, and the second might require you to: Scan your fingerprint or face - Enter a code that you receive by text or email - Enter a code from an authentication app or security key - Answer security questions - Respond to a push notification from an app - Plug in or tap a security key - Using MFA can help keep others out of your account even if your username and password are leaked on the dark webâor elsewhere. You can sometimes opt in and out of MFA in your account settings. If you have the option to turn it on, you also might be able to choose your additional form of authentication. In general, text message and email MFA are the least secure options, but they're still better than nothing. 3. Try to Add SIM-Swapping Protection to Your Phone SIM swapping is when someone temporarily takes over your phone line using the same SIM swapping procedure that you'd use to activate a new phone. Criminals do this by tricking or paying off mobile phone carriers' employees. Alternatively, they might port your number to a phone they control at a different carrier. Once they take control of your number, they can have your text message MFA codes sent to a phone they control. The potential for porting and SIM swapping is why SMS-based MFA can be less secure than other options. However, mobile phone carriers now offer extra security measures that can help protect you from SIM swapping attacks. Look online or contact your carrier to find out what
