---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/improving-credit/building-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:15.887870+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
time, non-debt payments won't automatically help you build your credit score. The good news is that you can request to have certain bills added to your credit report by using Experian Boost. Experian Boost works by allowing Experian to connect to your bank account and add eligible on-time payments for rent, utility, phone, insurance and streaming service bills to your credit report so they can be instantly reflected in your FICO® Score powered by your Experian report. Get a Cosigner If you need an auto loan, student loan or other type of credit you can't get on your own, consider asking a loved one with good credit to cosign your application. In doing so, your cosigner agrees to repay the debt if you can't, alleviating some of the concerns a lender might have if you were to apply on your own. That said, it's important to make sure your cosigner understands their obligations. They should also be aware that the loan or credit card will show up on their credit reports and may impact their ability to obtain credit. Consider a Credit-Builder Loan As previously mentioned, a credit-builder loan can be a great starting point for someone with limited or no credit history. While terms can vary by lender, credit-builder loans typically range from $300 to $1,000 and have a repayment term of six to 24 months. Instead of disbursing the loan proceeds upon approval like a traditional installment loan, the lender will hold on to the funds until you've completed your repayment term. The lender will report your monthly payments to the credit bureaus and then give you the loan funds once you complete your term. Just make sure the lender you choose reports to all three credit bureaus. What Factors Affect Your Credit Score? There are five key factors that make up your FICO® Score. Here's a quick breakdown of each one and their impact on your score: Payment history: 35%. When you apply for a loan or credit card, the lender's top priority is ensuring that you can repay your debt on time. As such, your payment history is the most influential factor in your FICO® Score. If you miss even a single payment by 30 days or more, it could have drastic consequences for your credit score. The longer a debt goes unpaid, the more damage it does. If you stop paying a bill and a collection account is opened in your name, this could appear on your credit report and negatively impact your score for up to seven years. - Amounts owed: 30%. The total amount you owe, along with the current loan balances compared to their original amounts are important factors in your FICO® Score. Your credit utilization rate is another important element of this factor because it indicates how much you rely on debt for your everyday spending. - Length of credit history: 15%. The longer your history of managing credit responsibly, the better. Length of credit history not only refers to the ages of your oldest and newest accounts but also the average age of all of your accounts. - Credit mix: 10%. Your credit mix indicates how diverse your credit accounts are, showing whether you can effectively manage both installment and revolving credit. This factor likely won't make or break a credit application, but having different types of credit under your belt can help take a good credit score to the next level. - New credit: 10%. Each time you apply for credit, the lender will typically run a hard inquiry on one or more of your credit reports. Additionally, opening new credit accounts will result in new tradelines on your credit reports. While taking on new credit may be necessary at times, it's important to avoid applying too frequently to avoid overextending yourself. - What Is a Good Credit Score?
