---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-credit-limit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:05.729222+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:16 GMT
---
What Is a Credit Limit? Quick Answer A credit limit is the maximum amount of money you can spend on your credit card. This amount is predetermined by your card issuer and can increase or decrease over time. A credit limit is the maximum amount of money you can borrow on a credit card or line of credit. Once the balance reaches the credit limit, the creditor might decline additional purchases, cash advances and balance transfers. However, card issuers can choose to allow additional transactions to go through, and you can free up available credit by paying down your balance. How Credit Card Companies Determine Credit Limits Credit card issuers want to offer you a high enough credit limit that you'll be able to use the card, but not so high that you won't be able to afford your payments. To accomplish this, they look at various factors when determining the credit limit on new and existing accounts, including: Your credit history and score: Card issuers may review your credit reports and credit scores to understand the likelihood that you'll make your monthly payments on time and whether you tend to carry credit card balances. Better credit scores can help you qualify for higher credit limits and lower interest rates. - Your income: Card issuers also need to be sure you can afford to make your credit card's minimum payments, which means getting a high credit limit will be difficult with a low income. - Your debts and debt-to-income ratio: Creditors consider your existing debts and debt-to-income ratio (DTI). After all, even if you make a six-figure salary, you may not have room in your budget for a new credit card payment if most of your income already goes to other bills. - Your relationship with the card issuer: Card issuers consider how much credit they're extending to you overallâacross all the credit cardsâalong with your history of making (or missing) payments, and the potential that you'll open additional accounts with them in the future. - The current economic environment: External circumstances can also be important. For example, card issuers might lower credit limits if they're worried about a recession. - The creditor's business goals: Card issuers may take different approaches to managing credit limits depending on their goals and the types of customers they want to attract. - Card issuers may use automated systems that consider these factors, determine your initial credit limit and suggest when to increase or decrease credit limits. How Your Credit Limit Can Impact Your Credit Scores Your credit cards' credit limits can directly impact your credit scores because they affect your credit utilization ratioâan important scoring factor. Assuming your credit card's balance stays the same: A credit limit decrease can increase your utilization rate and hurt your scores. - A credit limit increase can lower your utilization rate and help your scores. - Both the utilization rate of individual credit cards and your overall utilization ratio can affect your credit scores. In either case, lower utilization rates are best. To find the utilization rate of an account, review the credit card balance on your credit report and divide it by the account's credit limit. Example: A credit card that has a $1,000 balance and a $4,000 credit limit has a 25% utilization ratio. To calculate your overall utilization, use all the balances and credit limits for your credit cardsâand other revolving accountsâon your credit reports. What Is a Good Credit Limit? Ideally, you can qualify for a credit card with a high enough limit that you can use the card for everyday spending while maintaining a low utilization rateâunder 10% is a helpful rule of thumb. In other words, if you tend to spend $2,000 on monthly card expenses, you might want a card with a $20,000 limit. Card issuers usually report your balance
