---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/mortgage-rates-5094943
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:58.666237+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
small downside of FHA loans is that they require borrowers to pay mortgage insurance premiums (MIPs) both upfront and on an ongoing basis, adding to their costs. VA loans don't have that requirement. If you have a relatively good credit score and can afford a down payment of, say, 10% or more, you'll find many options in the broader market for conforming mortgages. If you can afford to put down 20% or more you won't have to pay for private mortgage insurance (PMI). Note that many banks and credit unions offer all of these different kinds of mortgages, so a loan officer there should be able to acquaint you with your various options and point you in the right direction. The Difference Between Interest Rate and APR When you're shopping for a mortgage or any other type of loan, you might see two types of interest rates advertised: the nominal interest rate and the annual percentage rate (APR). The former only accounts for the interest that the lender plans to charge. The latter includes both that and any other fees associated with the loan, expressed as an annual cost. In other words, APR more accurately reflects how much you'd have to pay on a particular mortgage. For that reason, it is the most useful number to look at when comparing two or more loans. Example of the Difference Between Interest Rate and APR Loan Amount $500,000 Interest Rate 7.00% Origination Fee 1% ($5,000) Discount Points 1 ($5,000) Total Fees $10,000 APR 7.227% Assumes $500,000 loan amount, 30-year term, 20% down payment, 7% interest rate, 1% origination fee, and 1 discount point How Are Mortgage Rates Set? Mortgage rates at any given time are based on the prevailing rates in the bond markets, which can rise and fall based on inflation and other factors in the wider economy. Lenders start with a benchmark, such as the going rate on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes. On top of that they will add a spread to account for their costs and risks and to ensure themselves of a profit. For example, if 10-year Treasury notes are yielding 5%, a lender might set its interest rate on a 30-year mortgage at 7%. In addition, lenders may change different rates to different individuals. Someone with a relatively low credit score (if they qualify at all) is likely to pay a higher rate because the lender will increase the spread to account for their higher perceived risk. How to Get the Best Mortgage Rates Because interest rates can vary from one lender to another, it's always worth shopping around. Even a small difference in rates can add up to real money over time. Here are the steps to take to avoid overpaying: Compare multiple lenders' rates based on APRs, not nominal interest rates. This will give you a truer picture of what you'd pay with each lender. Check your credit reports and credit scores before you apply. You can obtain both for free, the former at AnnualCreditReport.com and the latter from many banks and credit card companies. If you find any errors in your credit reports that put you in a bad light, ask that they be corrected before you apply. If your credit score is in need of improvement, consider delaying your application for a few months while you work to raise it. Check your debt-to-income (DTI) ratio. A metric commonly used by lenders, DTI compares your monthly credit obligations to your monthly income. Mortgage lenders generally want to see a DTI of 43% or less to make sure you aren't getting in too deep. Consider a larger down payment of you can afford it. That reduces the lender's risk, so they'll often offer you a lower interest rate in return. Know that mortgage rates can be negotiable, especially in a competitive market. It never hurts
