---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/enforcement/premerger-notification-program
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:53:38.459655+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 09 Feb 2026 07:53:35 GMT
---
new thresholds and fees will be posted soon. (01/22/24) - The FY2022 HSR Annual Report has been issued by the Commission, together with the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division. See the details in the Commission’s press release. (01/11/24) - Important Notice: In the event that Kiteworks Accellion is unavailable for HSR filing submission, DO NOT email your filing to the Premerger Office. Emailed filings will NOT be accepted and the emails will be immediately deleted. You may email Premerger@ftc.gov to inform us that you have attempted to file via the portal and that the system is unavailable. (10/19/23) - The FTC and DOJ are extending by 30 days the deadline for the public to submit comments on proposed changes to the premerger notification form and associated instructions, as well as the premerger notification rules implementing the Hart-Scott-Rodino (HSR) Act. The new deadline for submitting comments is September 27, 2023. (08/10/23) - The Federal Register has published the Proposed Rulemaking on HSR Form Changes. The comment period ends on August 28, 2023. The FR cite is 88 FR 42178 (June 29, 2023). (07/05/23) - The Commission, with the concurrence of DOJ, has published Proposed Amendments to the Premerger Notification Form and Instructions. See the Commission’s press release. (06/27/23) - The Index of all HSR Enforcement Actions has been updated on the Procedures For Submitting Post-Consummation Filings page. (03/08/23) - Important Notice: The new filing fee tiers are now in effect for all filings submitted on or after Monday, February 27, 2023. Guidance can be found here. The new filing fees can be found on the Filing Fee Information page, along with instructions on submitting an electronic wire transfer. In addition, the new HSR Form and Instructions are now in effect. They can be found here. We’ve updated our guidance on how to submit filings via Accellion and on Post-Consummation filings. (11/16/22) - Important notice: 2017 NAPCS Codes – Updated U.S. Census Bureau Web Link Item 5(a) of the HSR Form requires the reporting of manufacturing revenue by both 6-digit NAICS and 10-digit NAPCS-based codes as published by the U.S Census Bureau (Bureau) for the 2017 Economic Census. The Census Bureau has updated its website such that the link provided in HSR Instructions is no longer accurate. The new Bureau address is: Census Bureau. The correct concordance file can be found at the link “2012 Product Code to 2017 NAPCS-Based Collection Code”. (10/31/22) - PNO News Archive -
