---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/complaint/data-use/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:34.522137+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
How we share complaint data Each week we send thousands of consumer complaints about financial products and services to companies for response. Data from those complaints helps us understand the financial marketplace and protect consumers. Ways we use complaint data We forward each complaint to the appropriate company for a response. - We share complaint data with state and federal agencies. We also present reports to Congress. - We analyze complaint data to help with our work to supervise companies, enforce federal consumer financial laws, and write better rules and regulations. - We publish complaints in the Consumer Complaint Database (without information that directly identifies you). - What we publish in the Consumer Complaint Database Types of complaint data we publish We publish complaints after the company responds or after 15 days, whichever comes first. Field name | Description | ---|---| Date received | The date the CFPB received the complaint. For example, “05/25/2013.” | Product | The type of product the consumer identified in the complaint. For example, “Checking or savings account” or “Student loan.” | Sub-product | The type of sub-product the consumer identified in the complaint. For example, “Checking account” or “Private student loan.” | Issue | The issue the consumer identified in the complaint. For example, “Managing an account” or “Struggling to repay your loan.” | Sub-issue | The sub-issue the consumer identified in the complaint. For example, “Deposits and withdrawals” or “Problem lowering your monthly payments.” | Consumer complaint narrative | Consumer complaint narrative is the consumer-submitted description of “what happened” from the complaint. Consumers must opt-in to share their narrative. We will not publish the narrative unless the consumer consents, and consumers can opt-out at any time. The CFPB takes reasonable steps to scrub personal information from each complaint that could be used to identify the consumer. | Company public response | The company’s optional, public-facing response to a consumer’s complaint. Companies can choose to select a response from a pre-set list of options that will be posted on the public database. For example, “Company believes complaint is the result of an isolated error.” | Company | The complaint is about this company. For example, “ABC Bank.” | State | The state of the mailing address provided by the consumer. | ZIP code | The mailing ZIP code provided by the consumer. This field may: i) include the first five digits of a ZIP code; ii) include the first three digits of a ZIP code (if the consumer consented to publication of their complaint narrative); or iii) be blank (if ZIP codes have been submitted with non-numeric values, if there are less than 20,000 people in a given ZIP code, or if the complaint has an address outside of the United States). | Tags | Data that supports easier searching and sorting of complaints submitted by or on behalf of consumers. For example, complaints where the submitter reports the age of the consumer as 62 years or older are tagged “Older American.” Complaints submitted by or on behalf of a servicemember or the spouse or dependent of a servicemember are tagged “Servicemember.” Servicemember includes anyone who is active duty, National Guard, or Reservist, as well as anyone who previously served and is a veteran or retiree. | Consumer consent provided? | Identifies whether the consumer opted in to publish their complaint narrative. We do not publish the narrative unless the consumer consents, and consumers can opt-out at any time. | Submitted via | How the complaint was submitted to the CFPB. For example, “Web” or “Phone.” | Date sent to company | The date the CFPB sent the complaint to the company. | Company response to consumer | This is how the company responded. For example, “Closed with explanation.” | Timely response? | Whether the company gave a timely response. For example, “Yes” or
