---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-unfreeze-your-credit-report/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:27.160390+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:52 GMT
---
Does It Take to Unfreeze Your Credit Report? Unfreezing your credit report can happen in real time or it can take several days, depending on which method you choose and the legal requirements. If you unfreeze your credit report online or over the phone, it's typically done in real time, though the Federal Trade Commission allows the credit bureaus to take up to an hour to complete the process. Alternatively, if you decide to submit your request via mail, the security freeze will typically be removed within three days of receipt, and that's on top of the time it takes to deliver your letter. Tip: In most cases, it's best to submit your request online or over the phone to avoid delays. When Do You Need to Remove a Credit Freeze? You need to remove a credit freeze when you plan to apply for credit in any form. Even if you're just shopping around to compare rates via prequalification tools, it's best to thaw your credit to be safe. Tip: You don't have to worry about thawing your credit report when applying for an apartment lease, undergoing a background check for a new job or buying an insurance policy. You can also continue to receive prescreened credit offers with frozen credit reports. Frequently Asked Questions Monitor Your Credit to Protect Yourself Regardless of your reasons for unfreezing your credit report and how long it stays thawed, monitoring your credit report regularly can help you stay on top of your credit score and spot both opportunities to improve your credit and threats to your overall credit health. With Experian's free credit monitoring service, you can access your FICOÂ® ScoreÎ and Experian credit report anytime at no cost. You'll also get real-time alerts when changes are made to your credit report, making it easier to stop identity theft before it causes significant damage. Freeze your credit file for free A security freeze, often known as a credit freeze, limits access to your Experian credit reportâhelping protect you against identity theft. Create a free accountAbout the author Ben Luthi has worked in financial planning, banking and auto finance, and writes about all aspects of money. His work has appeared in Time, Success, USA Today, Credit Karma, NerdWallet, Wirecutter and more. Read more from Ben
