---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-to-do-if-information-is-found-on-dark-web/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:10.770367+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:30 GMT
---
identity theft resolution professionals who can help you contact organizations, get your documents in order and manage the restoration process. You may also have identity theft insurance, which can help cover costs related to resolving all these issues. - 6. Freeze Your Credit You also have the right to add a security freeze to your credit reports from Experian, TransUnion and Equifax. This is also called freezing your credit, and it can be a simple and free way to keep someone from opening new credit accounts in your name. You have to freeze your reports separately at each credit bureau, which you can do online, over the phone or by mail. Experian | TransUnion | Equifax | ---|---|---| Experian Security Freeze | TransUnion | Equifax Information Services LLC | Freezing your credit reports limits access to your reports and keeps creditors from checking your credit in response to a new application. As a result, creditors may deny applications in your name while a freeze is in place. However, your report can still be accessed for other reasons, such as if your current creditor wants to review your report or if you want to check your own credit. You'll also want to remember to unfreeze or temporarily "thaw" your reports when you legitimately apply for a new credit card or loan. 7. Add a Fraud Alert You also have the right to add a fraud alert to your credit reports. When there's a fraud alert on your report, creditors can see that you might be the victim of identity theft and are instructed to verify your identity or contact you before extending credit in your name. Unlike with credit freezes, you only need to contact one bureau to add a fraud alertâit will forward your request to the other two bureaus. You can start the process online at Experian's Fraud Alert Center, and have the option to request one of three types of fraud alerts, depending on eligibility: initial, extended and active-duty alerts. Initial Fraud Alert | Extended Fraud Alert | Active-Duty Alert | ---|---|---| Cost | Free | Free | Free | ---|---|---|---| When to use | You suspect you've been or may become a victim of identity theft | You've filed an FTC identity theft report or a police report | You're an active-duty service member and want to protect your credit file | ---|---|---|---| Duration | 1 year | 7 years | 1 year | ---|---|---|---| Removed from prescreened credit and insurance offers | For 6 months | For 5 years | For 2 years | ---|---|---|---| 8. Beware of Scammers Having safety measures in place can help protect you from identity theft or fraud regardless of how someone gets your information. But you may also want to be extra careful of scammers and fraudsters. Unlike when someone uses your information to trick a company, if a scammer tricks you into sending them money, you might not be able to get it back. And scammers who gather information about you from the dark web and elsewhere might be able to trick you more easily. For example, they might be able to figure out who your family members are and where you have accounts. They can use this information when they pretend to be an employee at a company or government agency. One rule of thumb: Never share personal information or security codes with someone who contacts you out of the blue, even if it looks like they're calling, texting, emailing or messaging from a legitimate company. It's best to ignore these messages, look up the organization's information and then initiate the conversation. Find Out What Personal Information May be Accessible Online You can use several tools to find out if your information is on the dark web, was compromised in a data breach or is easily accessible on
