---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-debt-relief-companies-8763179
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:00.590678+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
are not eligible Savings account fees are not disclosed Doesn’t offer legal support Why We Chose It We picked National Debt Relief (NDR) as the best overall debt settlement company because it beat the competition in just about every respect. NDR will attempt to help you settle your outstanding debt for less than you owe; if it’s successful, it charges 15% to 25% of the enrolled debt. NDR works with many common types of debt, including credit card balances, lines of credit, personal loans, collection accounts, and even business debts. You’ll need to be at least $10,000 in debt to work with National Debt Relief, which is a bit more than some other companies but not an uncommon requirement. NDR is accredited by two well-known names in the industry: the Association for Consumer Debt Relief (ACDR) and the International Association of Professional Debt Arbitrators (IAPDA). National Debt Relief claims to have helped over 1.2 million people, more than any other debt settlement service included in our research. It has good customer reviews for the most part, too—it earned an overall score of 4.7 out of 5 in Investopedia’s combined customer satisfaction rating, which aggregates ratings from a number of sources. National Debt Relief was founded in 2009 and has headquarters in New York City. Read more in our full National Debt Relief review. Fees and Costs By law, debt relief companies can’t charge upfront fees. So, you’ll start with a free consultation to see if the program is a good fit. If you decide to move forward, you’ll open a savings account to hold your settlement funds, which will likely have a setup and monthly fee (these fees are not disclosed). Other than that, you’ll only be charged a fee if National Debt Relief is able to reach a settlement and you agree to the terms. NDR will charge 15% to 25% of the enrolled debt—it’s a hefty fee, although the lower end is as low as most of the debt settlement companies we researched (but not the lowest). NDR says that on average, customers usually end up paying 45% less than is owed. Best With Legal Support : Freedom Debt Relief Investopedia's Rating 4.5 out of 5 stars Freedom Debt Relief Services: Debt settlement, debt consolidation loansDebt settlement fee: 15% to 25% of enrolled debtMinimum debt required: $7,500 Learn More (opens in a new tab) Pros & Cons Pros Legal support available at no extra cost Discloses fees on website Great customer ratings and reputation $7,500 minimum debt requirement Cons Unavailable in a handful of states and D.C. Savings account is somewhat expensive (but fees are disclosed) Consumer protection law violations on record Why We Chose It Freedom Debt Relief (FDR) has been in operation for over 20 years (founded in 2002), and in that time, it claims to have helped over one million customers find relief from over $20 billion in debt. Despite its consumer protection law violations (settled in 2019), the company enjoys high customer satisfaction ratings. Unlike many debt relief companies, FDR works with a network of attorneys who are on hand to help deal with any legal actions brought against you by creditors. Although these attorneys won’t represent you in court, they’ll attempt to get creditors to settle any lawsuits and agree to debt settlement instead. Freedom Debt Relief covers a wide variety of debts, from the common (credit card bills) to the less common (payday loans). Its service includes a guarantee that, again, most companies don’t offer: If your total settlement cost ends up being more than the total amount originally enrolled in the program, FDR will refund you the difference. That can save you some money compared to other programs, especially if the process takes excessively long. FDR is available in 41 states, either directly or through legal partners. You can work with
