---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/20-types-of-identity-theft-and-fraud/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:50.839144+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:50 GMT
---
is a form of fraud where an identity thief combines stolen information from one victim with other (real or invented) information to compile a new, false identity. How this type of fraud happens: Synthetic identity theft occurs when criminals merge elements of your personal information with those of one or more other victims to create a fictitious identity. They may get their hands on victims' information through phishing, for example. Crimes committed through synthetic identity theft can be hard to detect because no single victim is likely to be aware of the full extent of the fraudulent activity. How to avoid it: Monitor your credit reports and financial accounts for unusual activity. Also watch out for and consider following up on mail addressed to persons who don't reside at your address or phone inquiries seeking individuals you don't know. 12. Medical Identity Theft Medical identity theft is when someone fraudulently uses someone else's personal information to obtain unauthorized medical treatment, prescriptions or medical equipment. How this type of fraud happens: Medical identity theft often involves persons known to the victim, and can generate large bills. Thieves may use documents proving your identity (such as your driver's license or Social Security card), or your health insurance card or policy number, to receive medical services. How to avoid it: Take care to limit access to your insurance ID cards. Monitor your medical statements carefully to check for unfamiliar charges. Check your credit reports regularly for signs that medical service providers are attempting to collect unpaid bills. Notify your health insurer and medical provider immediately if you see anything suspicious. Learn more: How to Avoid Medical Identity Theft 13. Mortgage Fraud Mortgage fraud occurs when a party in a home sale intentionally misleads the other party about the nature of the transaction. How this type of fraud happens: A home seller might commit mortgage fraud by concealing information or defects that adversely affect the home's value (and the amount a lender would be willing to offer for financing). On the other hand, a buyer might commit fraud by falsifying their income or assets in order to secure a larger mortgage than they can afford. How to avoid it: The best way to avoid mortgage fraud is to work with reputable real estate professionals, including agents, mortgage brokers, attorneys and appraisers. You should never fudge information on a mortgage application or disclosure form, and avoid any professionals who suggest it. 14. Home Title Fraud Home title fraud is a type of scam in which a criminal steals a home's title to change ownership of the home into their name. How this type of fraud happens: Home title fraud occurs when someone impersonates you to gain possession of your property title. Then, they use it alongside other personal information to transfer ownership to themselves. This enables them to use your home as collateral on loans and lines of credit they won't repay, which could lead to foreclosure. How to avoid it: If you receive notices from your mortgage servicer or a property tax bill in someone else's name, or your automatic mortgage and tax payments stop without explanation, look into the possibility of title fraud. You can also verify the status of your home title with your county's deed office or use a commercial title protection company to safeguard its status. Tip: If you're interested in title protection, be sure to research providers yourself. An unsolicited offer from such a company could be a scam. 15. Passport Fraud Passport fraud is when a criminal uses a lost or stolen passport to commit identity theft, possibly by impersonating a victim or creating false travel documents. How this type of fraud happens: Criminals may use stolen passports to enter a country illegally or carry out financial crimes, such as smuggling. Also, because a passport is a legal
