---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/supct/cert/23-719
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:10:47.159006+00:00
last_updated: Wed, 14 Jan 2026 15:53:40 GMT
---
Three former Attorneys General, two law professors, and Citizens United, in support of Trump, argue that upholding the Colorado Supreme Court would threaten “the Nation’s tradition of free and fair elections.” The Attorneys General, professors, and Citizens United predict that if state officials could unilaterally remove candidates from the ballot, then they would naturally do so against any political opponent, which would create chaos and accusations of “insurrection” in any contested election. Landmark Legal, in support of Trump, adds that private actors could also sue under the Colorado Supreme Court’s standard and underscores that such a result would “undermine public trust in the electoral system.” Six constitutional law scholars, in support of Anderson, warn that the Supreme Court must “vigorously enforce” Section Three against Trump to avoid threats to democracy and maintain equal protection of the law, a free press, and fair elections. The constitutional law scholars note that other democracies have historically collapsed upon electing insurrectionists as heads of state. Six democracy scholars, in support of Anderson, add that American democracy is in peril, and that other nations’ histories demonstrate that the judicial branch must assert its independence to prevent further democratic erosion. Common Cause in support of Anderson, contends that Trump’s involvement with and continued support of the January 6th insurrection constitutes an “existential threat” to American democracy and to specific elected officials whom Trump has targeted. PARTIES’ AND VOTERS’ INTERESTS IN ELECTIONS Former Congressman Peter Meijer, in support of Trump, contends that upholding the Colorado Supreme Court’s decision would exacerbate inconsistencies between states’ ballots because each state government would make its own decision about how to treat political candidates. Judicial Watch, in support of Trump, adds that a “piecemeal adjudication of candidate disqualification under Section [Three]” would violate due process because many states’ decisions would restrict large numbers of voters’ First Amendment rights to free association and to vote for their preferred candidate. Nine constitutional and First Amendment scholars and practitioners, in support of Anderson, contend that Section Three’s importance and the Supreme Court’s precedent establish that a state does not violate the right to free association when it prevents a particular candidate from appearing on the ballot based on the candidate’s ineligibility for office. Seven former Republican Members of Congress, in support of Anderson, add that Trump “wrongfully conflates improper voter disenfranchisement with the enforcement of the Constitution” and that Section Three is an important democratic safeguard. LIMITATIONS ON POLITICAL ACTIVITY One hundred and seventy-nine Members of Congress, in support of Trump, contend that the Colorado Supreme Court’s definition of “insurrection” is so expansive that it encompasses many types of political activity that individuals of many different ideologies have engaged in. The Members of Congress assert that upholding the Colorado Supreme Court’s definition of insurrection would expand Section Three’s prohibition to include many common types of political speech and protest. Professor Sherrilyn Ifill, in support of Anderson, argues that enforcing Section Three against Trump would not infringe on regular political participation because insurrections are attempted overthrows of the government, which courts have distinguished from protests. Professor Mark Graber, in support of Anderson, adds that the Colorado Supreme Court’s definition of insurrection would not trigger a “parade of horribles” because the Colorado Supreme Court adopted a definition rooted in long-established constitutional principles. Conclusion Written by: Edited by: Acknowledgments The authors would like to thank Professor Sheri Lynn Johnson for her guidance and insights into this case. Additional Resources Jennifer K. Elsea, The Insurrection Bar to Office: Section Three of the Fourteenth Amendment, Congressional Research Service (September 7, 2022). - Scott Bomboy, The Last Insurrection Case Considered by Congress, National Constitution Center, (January 26, 2024). - William Baude & Michael Stokes Paulsen, The Sweep and Force of Section Three, Social Science Research Network (September 19, 2023). - Josh Blackman & Seth Barrett Tillman, Sweeping and Forcing the President
