---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/consumer-tools/auto-loans/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:40.280632+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Auto loans Whether you’re planning to get a car or having trouble managing your auto loan, we have unbiased resources and tools to help you get the best deal and avoid surprises that can cost you money. English - Español - Steps for getting an auto loan Getting a new car or auto loan affects your overall money picture. Whether you’re a first-time borrower or a pro, seeing what questions to ask and steps to take can help you avoid common pitfalls, so you can drive off the lot with confidence. 1. Know before you shop for a car or auto loan By asking questions before you shop, you’re more likely to get the best interest rates and loan terms for your budget, save yourself valuable time and money, and reduce stress. Start by asking yourself these questions 2. See different ways to get an auto loan When financing a new vehicle, you have options. Learn the most common ways to get an auto loan and how to compare interest rates and terms to find the best one for your budget. Read more about the ways to finance your loan 3. Know what is negotiable Did you know that you can negotiate the terms of your auto loan? Negotiating can save you hundreds or even thousands of dollars over the life of your loan. Find out more about negotiating loan basics 4. Understand how to close the deal There’s still a lot of paperwork to go over and sign. Before you drive away, make sure the paperwork matches the deal you think you are getting and that everyone has signed all the documents. Have other auto loan questions? You can search for answers to our most frequently asked auto loan questions. Dealing with auto loan problems Common issues Submit a complaint Having trouble with a financial product or service? If you've already tried reaching out to the company and still have an issue, you can submit a complaint. We'll forward your complaint to the company and work to get you a response, generally within 15 days. Page last modified @
