---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/lii/help
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:11:04.166547+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
is no really first-class guide to legal research for the lay person online; most are just lists of resources. Some you might try have been written by a branch of the New York Public Library and by Nolo Press. You might also try the Layperson's Law Lounge. Finally, don't ignore print sources; any good bookstore either on- or offline will stock a number of self-help legal guides. - More specialized "getting started" guides for legal research are available for government information , for courts, and for reports of jury verdicts and damages. For a good tutorial on Internet searching in general, see Web Search Strategies. The language is a little ornate but the advice is good. - Finding laws, rules, and regulations Probably the most important thing to know when looking for "law about" something (say, alcoholic beverages) is whether the matter you're interested in is primarily a state or a federal matter. Much of the time it makes more sense to start with the states (if possible, your state); check our listing of state laws by topic. - Federal laws and rules can be found by looking at the Code of Federal Regulations and the United States Code. What's the difference? The CFR contains rules and regulations made by executive branch agencies; the Code is a collection of laws made by Congress. Both are subject to almost continual change. The LII version of the Code contains an update feature which will give you information about recent changes to the Code. Regulations too new for the online version of the CFR are often found in the Federal Register. - We provide overviews of important topical areas with links to online resources in our "Law about..." section. Often this will be your best starting point. - Collections of rules and regulations and of public laws change often. As a result citations can very quickly become outdated. If you come to us with a citation culled from a print source (and the older the source the greater the danger of this is) you may not find what you're looking for. In such cases the best bet is probably to simply use the search engine for the resource in question (US Code or CFR) to find relevant sections. - Finding cases Many cases assigned for school projects are Supreme Court cases of some historic importance. We suggest you start with our list of Historic Decisions of the US Supreme Court if you are looking for a "famous case". - Our topical pages provide a good starting point for locating cases in particular areas of law. - Your chances of finding a case on the Net are substantially reduced if you don't know what court it came from. Again, if it's a famous case in the US we recommend starting with our Historic Decisions of the Supreme Court. If it's a recent case (or if you don't know) try searching our collections of recent Supreme Court opinions. We also provide a list of state courts that may have what you want. - Certain types of cases are very difficult to find on the Net. Except for Supreme Court decisions, almost no decisions from any court dating from before 1990 are available from any free source on the Net. Other hard-to-find categories are cases from the Federal District Courts, state courts other than the highest appellate court in the state, and all manner of county and municipal courts. There are exceptions, though, and new things are coming online constantly. One way to find them is to search on the name of the court in Google Scholar, Court Listener, or the Caselaw Access Project - When you can't find a Supreme Court case you read about in the news. News media are fond of saying that the Supreme Court "ruled" or "made a decision" in a
