---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-long-does-a-credit-card-balance-transfer-take/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:42.219273+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:36 GMT
---
way to consolidate high-interest credit card debt, but it's not for everyone. Here are some situations where it might make sense: You have good credit and can qualify for a 0% intro APR balance transfer promotion. - The card you're transferring to has a much lower APR. - You have a plan to pay off the full balanceâor at least a large chunk of itâbefore the 0% APR promotional period ends. - You don't plan to add more credit card debt while you're paying down your balance. - You're developing good credit habits, so you can avoid falling back into debt in the future. - On the flip side, it might not make sense to do a balance transfer in the following situations: You struggle to stick to a repayment plan on a credit card. - Your credit score isn't high enough to qualify for a 0% introductory APR promotion. - You have other cards with a lower APR. - You're on track to paying off your balance within a few months and don't want to open a new account or incur a balance transfer fee. - Adding a new card to your wallet could exacerbate problems with overspending. - It's also important to note that even if you qualify for a good balance transfer credit card, if you have a lot of credit card debt, the new card may not have a high enough limit to cover the full balance. In this case, you can still save money by transferring, but the repayment process will be a bit more complicated. How to Choose a Balance Transfer Credit Card There are a lot of different credit cards out there that offer low or even 0% APR promotions on balance transfers. Here are some variables to consider when determining which balance transfer credit card is the best for you: Length of the promotion - Variable APR after the promotional period ends - Amount of the balance transfer fee - Other features, such as rewards and benefits - APR offer on purchases - How much debt you want to transfer - Some cards may offer longer 0% introductory APR periods, but they might not offer other benefits, so you won't get much value out of them after you finish paying off your debt. Other cards may offer rewards, intro bonuses and even other benefits, but their intro 0% APR period may be shorter. Consider how much debt you have and how long it'll take to pay it off, along with each card's additional features, to determine the right fit for you. Save with an intro 0% APR balance transfer Build Your Credit to Qualify for Better Cards The best credit cards for balance transfers offer introductory 0% APR promotions, but they're generally not available to consumers with fair or poor credit. If your FICOÂ® ScoreÎ is below 670, you may have a hard time qualifying. Check your credit score and review your credit report to get an idea of your overall credit health and to understand which areas of your credit file you can address. This may involve paying down some of your balances, getting caught up on missed payments, disputing inaccurate credit information and more. The important thing is that you learn how your actions impact your credit score and start taking steps to improve it. This process can take time, though, so create a plan to tackle your credit card debt in the meantime. Best balance transfer cards Need to consolidate debt and save on interest? See if you qualify for intro offers like 0% intro APR up to 21 months based on your FICOÂ® Score. See your offersAbout the author Ben Luthi has worked in financial planning, banking and auto finance, and writes about all aspects of money. His work has appeared in Time, Success, USA Today, Credit Karma,
