---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/research/personal-loan-study/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:42.092452+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:01 GMT
---
+4.7% | ---|---|---|---| Tennessee | $17,788 | $19,323 | +8.6% | ---|---|---|---| Texas | $17,779 | $19,567 | +10.1% | ---|---|---|---| Utah | $21,086 | $21,565 | +2.3% | ---|---|---|---| Vermont | $18,529 | $19,375 | +4.6% | ---|---|---|---| Virginia | $16,765 | $17,576 | +4.8% | ---|---|---|---| Washington | $30,648 | $31,483 | +2.7% | ---|---|---|---| West Virginia | $18,559 | $19,285 | +3.9% | ---|---|---|---| Wisconsin | $19,039 | $19,751 | +3.7% | ---|---|---|---| Wyoming | $27,428 | $27,309 | -0.4% | ---|---|---|---| Source: Experian data from Q3 of each year The states with faster-growing balances all have below-average balances, while most of the slower-growing states have average balances higher than the national average. So in both cases, these outlying states may be reverting to the average. One curiosity: Each of the 10 states with the lowest year-over-year increases in personal loan balances were firmly in the northern parts of the continental U.S. Average Balances Are Growing Faster Among Younger Generations As observed in other types of consumer loans, younger generations are borrowing and owing more on average than baby boomers and other older consumers. Consider again the 6.3% overall increase in balances: Younger generations saw balances increase more than twice the overall rate in some cases, while personal loan balances increased little among older borrowers. Generation (Ages) | 2022 | 2023 | Change | ---|---|---|---| Generation Z (18-26) | $7,684 | $8,710 | +13.4% | ---|---|---|---| Millennials (27-42) | $15,101 | $16,669 | +10.4% | ---|---|---|---| Generation X (43-58) | $20,677 | $22,259 | +7.7% | ---|---|---|---| Baby boomers (59-77) | $21,644 | $22,551 | +4.2% | ---|---|---|---| Silent Generation (78+) | $18,211 | $18,547 | +1.8% | ---|---|---|---| Source: Experian data from Q3 of each year; ages as of 2023 Baby boomers have the largest balances in 2023, but Generation X will likely soon owe the most on balances in the years to come based on current trends. What Borrowers Can (and Do) Expect in 2024 When asked in a recent Experian survey of more than 1,000 consumers, most people suggested they're aware of personal loans and have made use of them in the past. Nearly half said they plan to use them in the upcoming year. Let's take the past first: 57% of survey respondents (ages 21 through 65) said they've used personal loans in the past. Among these consumers, about one-third used a personal loan for debt consolidation, while another third used one for a major purchase. Why Are People Choosing Personal Loans? As for the near future, nearly half of those we asked (46%) said they intend to use a personal loan sometime this year. Debt consolidation, major purchases and emergency expenses are the most popular uses for these loans. Consumers aren't the only ones feeling the pinch of higher interest rates. Lenders, as well, need to pay for the dollars they lend to consumers. As their borrowing costs increase, lenders are passing on those costs to borrowers, just as credit card issuers passed on variable APR rates to card users. However, fixed-rate APRs of most personal loans do offer consumers both consistency in monthly payment amounts as well as rates that are typically lower than the average credit card rates if their credit is in good shape. Methodology: The analysis results provided are based on an Experian-created statistically relevant aggregate sampling of our consumer credit database that may include use of the FICOÂ® Score 8 version. Different sampling parameters may generate different findings compared with other similar analysis. Analyzed credit data did not contain personal identification information. Metro areas group counties and cities into specific geographic areas for population censuses and compilations of related statistical data. FICOÂ® is a registered trademark of Fair Isaac Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. Whatâs on your credit report? Stay up to date with your
