---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/constitutional_law
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:10:03.125533+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 11:00:56 GMT
---
of the states. As of 2022, the Constitution has been amended twenty-seven times. - Article VI establishes federal law as dominant over state law through what is known as the Supremacy Clause. Due to article VI, state laws which directly contradict federal law are not enforceable. Furthermore, all federal, state, and local officials must take an oath to support the Constitution. This means that state governments and officials cannot take actions or pass laws that interfere with the Constitution, laws passed by Congress, or treaties. - Article VII establishes how the Constitution will initially take effect. Amendments to the Constitution As mentioned above, the Constitution has been amended 27 times since it was first passed. The first ten amendments, called the Bill of Rights, were ratified in 1791 and provide a check on the federal government. The first eight amendments prevent the federal government from infringing upon certain rights of individuals. These protections include, in ascending order, the right to freedom of speech, right to bear arms, right not to quarter troops, right against unreasonable searches and seizures, right to a fair trial, right to a jury, and protections against cruel and unusual punishments. - The exact implications of each of these rights has been the subject of wide debate and controversy. As a result, an exhaustive list of case law exists interpreting what each amendment entails. For example, in District of Columbia v. Heller, the Supreme Court held that the Second Amendment prevents a government from interfering with a person’s ability to possess firearms for self-defense purposes, regardless of their status as a militia member. - The Ninth and Tenth Amendments are typically interpreted to show that the power of the federal government is not absolute. The Tenth Amendment specifically states that "the powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people." - The Ninth Amendment also guarantees that the "enumeration . . . of certain rights [in the Constitution] shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people." - The Thirteenth Amendment made chattel slavery illegal. The Fourteenth Amendment, which was passed in conjunction, prohibits the states from abridging "the rights and immunities" of any person without due process of law, as well as guarantees equal protection of the law for all people. The due process clause, as this has since become known, has had wide reaching effects on the field of constitutional law due to how it has been interpreted. For example, the Supreme Court has interpreted the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as affording protection from interference by the state with almost all of the rights listed in the first eight amendments. - This process of extending the Bill of Rights to the states is called the incorporation doctrine. - Additionally, interpretations of the 14th amendment led to the creation of the substantive due process doctrine. - The right to vote is protected by the Fifteenth Amendment ("right to vote shall not be denied... on account of race."), the Nineteenth Amendment (guaranteeing the right to vote regardless of sex), the Twenty-Fourth Amendment (outlawing the practice of poll taxes), and the Twenty-Sixth Amendment (extending the right to vote to 18 year olds). Amendments Seventeen, Twenty, and Twenty-Five provide procedures for filling vacancies in the legislative and executive branches. Finally, the Twenty-Seventh Amendment prevents laws that change the compensation received by Congress from taking effect until the next election occurs. [Last reviewed in August of 2022 by the Wex Definitions Team] Keywords Wex Resources menu of sources Federal Material U.S. Constitution Federal Judicial Decisions U.S. Supreme Court: - U.S. Circuit Courts of Appeals: Recent Constitutional Law Decisions - Background: Articles of Confederation - The Federalist Papers - Letter of Transmittal, Federal Constitution, Sept. 1787
