---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/score-basics/600-credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:14.185971+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:17 GMT
---
lender reports card activity to the national credit bureaus, you put down a deposit in the full amount of your spending limitâtypically a few hundred dollars. When you use the card and make regular payments, those activities will be recorded in your credit files. And as long as you keep your usage rate on the card below about 30%, and stay on schedule with your monthly payments, they'll help you build stronger credit. Consider a credit-builder loan. As the name implies, these are specialty loans designed to help build or shore up borrowers' credit profiles, by demonstrating the ability to make regular monthly payments. When you take out one of these loans, the credit union places the money you've borrowed in a savings account that generates interest. Once you've paid off the loan, you get the cash and the interest it has accrued. It's a neat savings tool, but the real payoff comes as the credit union reports your payments to the national credit bureaus, which can lead to credit-score improvements. (Double-check with the lender to make sure they report activity to all three national credit bureaus before you apply for a credit-builder loan.) Consider a debt-management plan. A debt-management plan (DMP) can be helpful to borrowers who find themselves overextended and unable to keep up with credit payments. Working in conjunction with an authorized credit-counseling agency, you negotiate a manageable repayment schedule, effectively closing all your credit accounts in the process. This is a major step that can seriously harm your credit score in the near-term, but it's less damaging than bankruptcy and can eventually give you a clean start on rebuilding your credit. Even if a DMP isn't for you, a good non-profit credit counselor (as distinct from credit-repair company) can help you find strategies for building up your credit. Pay your bills on time. If you could do only one thing to improve your credit score, nothing would help more than bringing overdue accounts up to date, and avoiding late payments as you move forward. Do whatever you can to remind yourself to pay the bills on time: Use automatic payments, set calendar alarms, or just write yourself notes and pin them where's you'll see them. Within a few months you'll train yourself in habits that promote higher credit-scores. Avoid high credit utilization rates. Credit utilization, or debt usage, is the basis for about 30% of your FICOÂ® Score. Keep your utilization rate below about 30% can help you avoid lowering your score. Among consumers with FICOÂ® credit scores of 600, the average utilization rate is 62.1%. Try to establish a solid credit mix. You shouldnât take on debt you donât need, but prudent borrowing, including a combination of revolving credit and installment debt, can be beneficial to your credit score. Learn more about your credit score A 600 FICOÂ® Score is a good starting point for building a better credit score. Boosting your score into the good range could help you gain access to more credit options, lower interest rates, and reduced fees. You can begin by getting your free credit report from Experian and checking your credit score to find out the specific factors that impact your score the most. Read more about score ranges and what a good credit score is.
