---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/enforcement/penalty-offenses
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:54:11.884172+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 09 Feb 2026 07:54:08 GMT
---
Offenses Concerning Business Opportunities The FTC has issued a Notice that it has determined that certain acts or practices used in the advertising or promotion of business opportunities are deceptive or unfair, and violate the FTC Act. Penalty Offenses Concerning Debt Collection The FTC has issued a Notice that it has determined that certain acts or practices used in the collection of debts are unfair or deceptive, and violate the FTC Act. Penalty Offenses Concerning Damaged or Defective Merchandise The FTC has issued a Notice that it has determined that certain acts or practices involving the sale of merchandise which is damaged or defective or different from that ordered are unfair or deceptive, and violate the FTC Act. Penalty Offenses Concerning Energy Savings The FTC has issued a Notice that it has determined that certain acts or practices involving the advertising of home improvement materials or products are unfair or deceptive, and violate the FTC Act. Penalty Offenses Concerning Feather & Down The FTC has issued a Notice that it has determined that certain acts or practices in connection with the disclosure of the filling contents of feather and down products are unfair or deceptive, and violate the FTC Act. Penalty Offenses Concerning Fur The FTC has issued a Notice that it has determined that certain acts or practices concerning labeling, invoicing or advertising of furs or fur products are unfair or deceptive, and violate the FTC Act. Penalty Offenses Concerning Home Improvement The FTC has issued a Notice that it has determined that certain acts or practices concerning the advertising and sale of home improvement products are unfair or deceptive, and violate the FTC Act. Penalty Offenses Concerning Imitation Coins The FTC has issued a Notice that it has determined that manufacturing or importing any imitation numismatic item which is not plainly and permanently marked “COPY” is an unfair or deceptive, and violates the FTC Act. Penalty Offenses Concerning Idea or Invention Promotion The FTC has issued a Notice that it has determined that certain acts or practices used in the advertising or marketing of idea or invention promotion or development services are deceptive or unfair, and violate the FTC Act. Penalty Offenses Concerning the Sale of Used and/or Rebuilt Merchandise The FTC has issued a Notice that it has determined that certain acts or practices involving the sale of used and/or rebuilt merchandise are unfair or deceptive, and violate the FTC Act. Penalty Offenses Concerning Sales Practices The FTC has issued a Notice that it has determined that certain acts or practices involving the sale of merchandise or services are unfair or deceptive, and violate the FTC Act. Penalty Offenses Concerning Textiles The FTC has issued a Notice that it has determined that certain acts or practices concerning textile fiber products are unfair or deceptive, and violate the FTC Act. Penalty Offenses Concerning Toys The FTC has issued a Notice that it has determined that certain acts or practices regarding the advertising and packaging of toys are unfair or deceptive, and violate the FTC Act. Penalty Offenses Concerning Unordered Merchandise The FTC has issued a Notice that it has determined that certain acts or practices involving sending and/or attempting to collect payment for unordered merchandise are unfair or deceptive, and violate the FTC Act. Penalty Offenses Concerning Weight Loss The FTC has issued a notice that it has determined that certain acts or practices concerning the promotion of products and plans for weight control are unfair or deceptive, and violate the FTC Act. Penalty Offenses Concerning Wool The FTC has issued a Notice that it has determined that certain practices with respect to wool products are unfair or deceptive, and violate the FTC Act.
