---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-get-a-secured-credit-card/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:14.253769+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:44 GMT
---
Compare Secured Card Features Once you've gathered information about a handful of secured credit cards, take a look at the following features: Security deposit: Many secured cards require a deposit of $200 or more, with your credit limit equal to your deposit. However, some cards may offer lower deposits based on your creditworthiness. - Deposit refund policy: With some major card issuers, you may be able to get your deposit back after you demonstrate responsible credit behaviors over the course of six to 12 months. Once your deposit is refunded, your card will be converted to an unsecured card. Other issuers may hold on to the deposit until you close the account, which can negatively impact your credit. - Rewards: Many secured credit cards offer rewards on your everyday purchases. While having a low credit limit doesn't give you a lot of room to rack up cash back, points or miles, it can be a nice bonus as you work to improve your credit. - Fees: While many major card issuers typically offer secured credit cards without an annual fee, others may charge one. These fees are often low, but it's best to avoid them as much as possible. - Interest rate: Some secured credit cards charge higher annual percentage rates (APRs) than others. If you plan to pay off your balance on time and in full every month, this may not be an issue. But if you think you may carry a balance sometimes, try to avoid higher-interest cards. - 4. Submit Your Application Once you've selected a card, visit the card issuer's website to submit an application. You'll generally need to provide the following information: Full name - Date of birth - Social Security number or individual taxpayer identification number - Citizenship status - Address - Contact information - Employment and income details - Housing costs - You may also need to share your highest level of education completed and whether you have a bank account. After you submit your application, you'll typically receive a decision within seconds. 5. Pay the Deposit If you're approved, you'll need to fund your security deposit before you get your card. Some card issuers require you to make the deposit via a transfer from your bank account. Others, however, may allow you to pay with a money order, personal check or electronic money transfer. Learn more: How Secured Credit Card Deposits Work Can You Get Denied for a Secured Credit Card? While a spotty or nonexistent credit history isn't as much of a problem for secured credit cards, you can still get denied for a secured credit card if the lender deems you too much of a financial risk. In particular, your application may be rejected if your income is too low or you have a pending bankruptcy. With that in mind, credit card issuers often gear secured cards toward people with a poor or limited credit history, so you have better chances of qualifying compared to other options. Learn more: What to Do if You're Denied a Secured Credit Card Frequently Asked Questions Monitor Your Credit-Building Process If you plan to use a secured credit card to build or rebuild your credit history, it's a good idea to monitor your credit to track your progress and pinpoint other areas you can improve. Experian's free credit monitoring service provides you with access to your FICO® Score and Experian credit report, giving you the information you need to build and maintain good credit. You'll also get real-time alerts when changes are made to your credit report, making it easier to spot potential inaccuracies and other problems that could threaten your progress. Looking to build credit? Discover secured credit card offers matched to you, so you can apply with confidence. Get started with your FICO® Score for free. See your offersAbout the author Ben
