---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/app
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:47.927992+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
The myEquifax™ app Navigate your credit journey with the free mobile app from Equifax. This credit score is a VantageScore 3.0 based on Equifax data. Third parties use many different types of credit scores and are likely to use a different type of credit score to assess your creditworthiness. Check your credit score with ease With the myEquifax mobile app, you can gain insights about your credit in the palm of your hand. Track your credit performance with My Journey Your credit score is an important part of your financial health. Get clear visuals and factors that affect your credit score. - Set credit score goals Having a better credit score can give you more financial freedom. By setting a credit score goal, you can help build better financial habits. - Get insights for your credit needs Knowing how to manage your credit is the first step to financial success. Find insights for you in the myEquifax app. - Identity theft protection whenever and wherever If you have an Equifax Premium product, you have access to identity theft protection features. Equifax Premium products include Equifax ID Patrol™, Equifax Complete™ Premier, and Equifax Complete™ Family Plan. With the myEquifax app, you can access these identity theft protection features. Manage Dark WebScan and alerts1 We scan suspected fraudulent websites and alert you if we find your Social Security, credit card, banking and medical ID numbers. - Lost wallet assistance If you lose your wallet, you don't need to panic. We make it easy by helping you cancel and reissue your credit and ID cards. - More exciting features coming soon Equifax strives to bring you a robust set of features to help you live your financial best. Download the myEquifax mobile app now to stay in the know about changes and updates. WebScan searches for your Social Security Number, up to 5 passport numbers, up to 6 bank account numbers, up to 6 credit/debit card numbers, up to 6 email addresses, and up to 10 medical ID numbers. WebScan searches thousands of Internet sites where consumers' personal information is suspected of being bought and sold, and regularly adds new sites to the list of those it searches. However, the Internet addresses of these suspected Internet trading sites are not published and frequently change, so there is no guarantee that we are able to locate and search every possible Internet site where consumers' personal information is at risk of being traded.
