---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/faqs/experian-document-upload-service/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:07.051026+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
else from downloading your personal information. What is a .tiff? A tiff file, or tif file, stands for Tagged Image File Format. Tif files are a common file format for images, especially those used on graphic design. The file extension for a tiff file is either .tiff or .tif. What is a .pdf? A pdf file stands for Portable Document File format. It is a widely used document format that is designed to distribute official documents online. A pdf file preserves the margins, fonts, page breaks, and formatting of an official document so that it prints identically on any kind of printer or computer. How do I convert my document to a .pdf? On most computers and with most common document types, you can open your document file and then select "Save As" and then ".pdf." Certain software applications also have a PDF option under the "Print" function (when selecting the printer, look for a PDF Creator). For your particular document type, computer or software, you may want to use a search engine to research the steps you should take. If you experience problems uploading a .pdf, try converting your document to a .tiff. How do I convert my document to a .tiff? Certain programs allow you to "Save As" a tiff file. To do this, or to see if your software contains this option, open the document file and select "Save As" and then look for the tiff option. Tiff conversion software can also be located online using a search engine. How do I know my document will be secure? Experian protects your information over the Internet by using a secure web server, which allows web browser programs to interact with Experian's web server via an encrypted session. Experian employs a Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) connection that provides an encrypted connection between your computer and Experian. Read a full description of our security processes. What will you do with my document once you receive it? An Experian customer service representative will review your document. If the document can be validated, we may use it to update the information on your credit report or it may be shared with the data furnisher for the purpose of processing your dispute. Be advised that written information or documents you provide with respect to your disputes may be shared with any and all creditors with which you are disputing. You said my document has a virus. How do I remove the virus? We cannot advise you on how to remove a virus. Please mail your document to us. Is there a limitation on the size of my document? The size of all uploaded documents within a session may not exceed 15 MB. Up to five documents may be uploaded during a session. I disputed online, but I didn't see anywhere to upload my documents. Documents may be uploaded at: experian.com/upload. This website address appears on the Dispute an Item pages on our website. What types of documents will you NOT accept as proof of my identity or address? Credit card statements, voided checks, lease agreements, magazine subscriptions and postal service forwarding orders are examples of documents we do not accept. If I uploaded my document today, how quickly will you update my credit report? Disputes are processed within 5 business days from the day we receive your request. It may take up to 30 days for the data furnisher to investigate the dispute and respond. We will notify you once we receive their response. I don't have a Report Number. Can I still upload my documents? Yes; however, it's always best to review a current copy of your credit report prior to initiating a dispute. How will I know you received my uploaded documents? If your documents are uploaded correctly, you will receive a confirmation message telling you so. If not, a message
