---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/score-basics/780-credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:34.721738+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:20 GMT
---
780 Credit Score: Is it Good or Bad? Your FICOÂ® ScoreÎ falls within a range, from 740 to 799, that may be considered Very Good. A 780 FICOÂ® Score is above the average credit score. Borrowers with scores in the Very Good range typically qualify for lenders' better interest rates and product offers. 25% of all consumers have FICOÂ® Scores in the Very Good range. In statistical terms, just 1% of consumers with Very Good FICOÂ® Scores are likely to become seriously delinquent in the future. Improving your 780 Credit Score A FICOÂ® Score of 780 is well above the average credit score of 714, but there's still some room for improvement. Among consumers with FICOÂ® credit scores of 780, the average utilization rate is 10.7%. The best way to determine how to improve your credit score is to check your FICOÂ® Score. Along with your score, you'll receive information about ways you can boost your score, based on specific information in your credit file. You'll find some good general score-improvement tips here. Why a Very Good credit score is pretty great A credit score in the Very Good range signifies a proven track record of timely bill payment and good credit management. Late payments and other negative entries on your credit file are rare or nonexistent, and if any appear, they are likely to be at least a few years in the past. People with credit scores of 780 typically pay their bills on time; in fact, late payments appear on just 8.6% of their credit reports. People like you with Very Good credit scores are attractive customers to banks and credit card issuers, who typically offer borrowers like you better-than-average lending terms. These may include opportunities to refinance older loans at better rates than you were able to get in years past, and chances to sign up for credit cards with enticing rewards as well as relatively low interest rates. How to keep on track with a Very Good credit score To achieve a 780 credit score, you're probably disciplined in your financial habits, with solid debt-management skills. You can still increase your score, however, and of course you'll want to avoid losing ground. To those ends, it's a good idea to keep an eye on your score, and avoid behaviors that can bring it down. Factors that affect credit scores include: Credit usage. To determine your credit utilization rate on a credit card, divide the outstanding balance by the card's credit limit, and then multiply by 100 to get a percentage. Calculate the utilization for all your cards, and then figure out your total utilization rate by dividing the sum of all your balances by the sum of all your borrowing limits (including those for cards with zero balances). You probably know credit scores will slip downward if you âmax outâ your credit limit on one or more cards by pushing utilization toward 100%. You may not know that most experts recommend keeping your utilization rate below 30% for each of your cards and for all your revolving accounts overall. Credit usage is responsible for about 30% of your FICOÂ® Score. Timely bill payments. This may seem obvious, but there's no greater influence on your FICOÂ® Score: Late and missed payments hurt your credit score, and on-time payments benefit your score. Payment history accounts for as much as 35% of your FICOÂ® Score. Credit mix. The FICOÂ® scoring system generally favors borrowers with a variety of credit, including both installment loans (e.g., mortgages and car loans, with fixed payments and finite repayment schedules) and revolving credit (e.g., credit cards, which let you borrow within a specific credit limit and pay back using variable payment amounts). Credit mix can influence up to 10% of your FICOÂ® Score. 62% of individuals with a 780 FICOÂ® Score have credit portfolios
