---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/debt-management/articles/-/learn/what-can-collection-agencies-do/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:05.340092+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
allowed to receive personal calls at work, they cannot call you there. Collectors are also prohibited from calling you before 8 a.m. and after 9 p.m. Can debt collectors call your family? A debt collector may only contact other people, such as family members or friends, to gain information about how to locate you. This might include where you live, your phone number and where you work. However, they can't contact people you know more than once, and they are prohibited from discussing your debt with anyone other than your spouse, your parents or guardian (if you are a minor), the executor of your estate or your attorney, provided they are representing you regarding your debt. Can a collection agency sue you and take you to court? Yes, debt collectors can take you to court to recover a past-due debt. If you are sued, it's important to respond right away, either personally or via a lawyer. If you need financial assistance to secure legal representation, you can use the Legal Services Corporation's search tool or find a pro bono legal aid program using the American Bar Association's Free Legal Help directory. Can debt collectors see your bank account balance or garnish your wages? Collection agencies can access your bank account, but only after a court judgment. A judgment, which typically follows a lawsuit, may permit a bank account or wage garnishment, meaning the collector can take money directly out of your account or from your wages to pay off your debt. However, to make sure you have money left to live on, state and federal laws have placed limits on bank accounts and wage garnishments. These limits, also called exemptions, vary by state so be sure to look into the specific guidelines where you live and consider enlisting the help of an attorney. There are also additional garnishment protections if you receive federal benefits, such as from the Social Security Administration or the Department of Veterans Affairs, that are directly deposited into your bank account. If this is the case for you and a collector tries to garnish funds in your account, your bank or credit union must protect two months' worth of the benefits and let you use that money. What protections do I have against unfair debt collection? Consumers are legally protected against unfair collection practices by the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA). The FDCPA prohibits debt collectors from using abusive, unfair or deceptive practices to collect debts from you. The law applies to mortgages, credit cards, medical debts and other debts for personal, family or household purposes. If you suspect a collection agency is pursuing you through unfair means, report your concerns to the Federal Trade Commission at ftc.gov or the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau at consumerfinance.gov. How will collections affect my credit scores and reports? In most credit scoring models, your payment history accounts for the largest portion of your credit scores. That means late payments — especially those that end up in collections — will likely have a negative effect. Debt that is in collection may remain on file for up to 7 years from the original delinquency date (or date of first delinquency) or the date of the first missed payment due to the original creditor. When the collection debt is paid off, the debt collector must update the information reported to reflect that the collection is paid off. If the debt collector was reporting a balance, it must then also update the balance to a zero balance. For a free monthly VantageScore 3.0 credit score and Equifax credit report, create a myEquifax account and click "Get my free credit score" on your myEquifax dashboard to enroll in Equifax Core Credit™. A VantageScore is one of many different types of credit scores. You can also get free credit reports annually from the three
