---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-life-insurance-companies-8763666
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:17.041413+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
issue, and guaranteed issue. Accelerated underwriting: With accelerated underwriting, insurers may still require a health questionnaire, but they also evaluate data like an individual’s prescription history, criminal records, and more. Some insurers may charge higher premiums for these policies, but some may not. Accelerated underwriting has tougher standards than other no-medical-exam policies. In exchange, you can usually apply for much larger amounts of coverage, up to $1 million or more, depending on the insurer. Simplified issue: Simplified issue life insurance also typically requires a medical questionnaire. Approval for these policies is fast, but companies may limit coverage to up to $100,000 maximum. These policies may be best for those with medical conditions, as you may be denied coverage or charged higher premiums on a traditional policy. Guaranteed issue: Lastly, with guaranteed issue life insurance, applicants don’t have to complete a medical exam or a questionnaire. You are guaranteed to qualify, even with serious health issues. For this reason, guaranteed issue life insurance policies generally offer very limited coverage, ranging from a few thousand dollars to up to $50,000. These policies also have a graded death benefit, which means there’s a waiting period of two to three years. If a policyholder dies during the waiting period, their beneficiaries won’t receive the death benefit, but they will get back any premiums plus interest. After the waiting period is over, beneficiaries receive the full death benefit. Guaranteed issue life insurance is a type of whole life insurance policy, which means it can include cash value. How We Chose the Best Life Insurance Companies Investopedia’s list of the best life insurance companies is based on comprehensive research of 45 companies. To even be considered for this list, insurance companies had to first meet Investopedia’s standards for online transparency, financial strength, and customer complaint ratings. Investopedia commissioned a consumer survey about life insurance, and consulted market share intelligence and other information about insurance company relevance and popularity to come up with a list of 45 companies to research further. We gathered 3,150 data points related to 70 criteria between May 20 and July 3, 2024. The data came from company webpages, media representatives, rating agencies (AM Best, NAIC, and J.D. Power), and customer service calls. Then, staff editors and research analysts created a quantitative model that scores each company based on six major categories. We weighted the categories as follows: Policy Features and Riders: 35%Policy Types: 22%Application and Online Service Features: 15%Cost: 12%Customer Satisfaction: 10%Financial Stability: 6% For more information, read our full methodology explanation. Investopedia / Mira Norian Article Sources Investopedia requires writers to use primary sources to support their work. These include white papers, government data, original reporting, and interviews with industry experts. We also reference original research from other reputable publishers where appropriate. You can learn more about the standards we follow in producing accurate, unbiased content in our editorial policy. Nationwide. "What Is No-Exam Life Insurance?" J.D. Power. "Life Insurance Customer Satisfaction Varies Widely Based on Carrier and Distribution Channel, J.D. Power Finds." lafayette life Insurance Company. "Whole Life Insurance." MassMutual. "MassMutual Policyowners to Benefit from $2.5 Billion Record Dividend in 2025." Penn Mutual. "Underwriting." Penn Mutual. "Penn Mutual Announces Record-Breaking Dividend Award in 2025." Symetra. "SwiftTerm® life insurance." AM Best. “Guide to Best’s Financial Strength Ratings.” Guardian. “What Is the Cash Surrender Value of Life Insurance?” SBLI. “Accelerated Underwriting.” Fidelity Life. “Simplified Issue Life Insurance.” Western & Southern Financial Group. “Understanding Guaranteed Issue Life Insurance.”
