---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/credit/report/articles/-/learn/4-ways-credit-history-may-affect-everyday-life/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:11.026812+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
can pay your bill if you do not. Speaking of utilities, there is also a consumer reporting company called the National Consumer Telecom & Utilities Exchange (NCTUE). The NCTUE maintains data including payment and account histories as reported by telecommunications, some paid TV and utility service providers that are members. Your payment history may be maintained by the NCTUE even if it’s not reported to the three nationwide credit bureaus. Some utilities and mobile phone companies may check your NCTUE report. #3: When you're making utility or mobile phone payments Most utilities and mobile phone companies don’t report to the three nationwide credit bureaus – Equifax, Experian and TransUnion. But if your account isn't paid as agreed and turned over to a collection agency, it may be reported as a collection account and your credit scores may be impacted. #4: When you're applying for a job Federal law allows both current and potential employers to view your credit reports when they are considering you for a new job – or even a promotion. Although not all employers check credit, some industries such as financial services or healthcare may because of the sensitive information their employees can access. If a prospective or current employer plans on checking your credit reports, they must first get written permission from you. This could be in the form of paperwork you sign when you apply for or first start your job. Employers and prospective employers must let you know if you do not receive a job or promotion because of information in your credit reports, and must provide you with the name and contact information of the credit bureau furnishing the report. Sign up for a credit monitoring & ID theft protection product today! For $19.95 per month, you can know where you stand with access to your 3-bureau credit report. Sign up for Equifax CompleteTM Premier today!
