---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-get-a-debt-consolidation-loan/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:46.059408+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:44 GMT
---
How to Get a Debt Consolidation Loan Quick Answer Debt consolidation loans allow you to combine several debts into one loan with one payment. Hereâs how: High-interest credit cards, medical bills and other types of debt can place significant strain on your budget. However, a debt consolidation loan may help give you some financial breathing room by combining multiple debt balances into one account with a single paymentâideally at a lower annual percentage rate (APR). This type of personal loan can make it easier to manage your debt, lower your interest costs and help you zero out your debt sooner. Debt consolidation loans have a fixed interest rate and a set repayment term, typically ranging from two to five years. You'll have a set end date and won't be stuck in a seemingly endless cycle of credit card payments that barely chip away at the balance. You can get a debt consolidation loan by following these steps. 1. Evaluate Your Financial Situation Before starting the process, review your debt and weigh the pros and cons of debt consolidation to make sure a debt consolidation loan would truly benefit you. A debt consolidation loan may make sense if it: Saves you money: A debt consolidation loan works best when you can replace high-interest debtâlike credit card balancesâwith a lower-rate loan. The average credit card interest rate is 22.80%, while the average rate for two-year personal loans is over 10 points lower at 12.32%, the most recent data from the Federal Reserve shows. Run the numbers through a credit card payoff calculator to see if debt consolidation could save you money. - Provides a clear repayment timeline: With revolving credit like credit cards, you borrow and repay funds on an ongoing basis. If you only make minimum payments, your payoff date will likely be in the distant future. Paying only the minimum 4% on a $1,500 balance, for example, could take up to eight years to pay off. By contrast, personal loans come with a fixed repayment termâusually five years or lessâpotentially making it easier to budget and pay off debt faster. - Pays off your debt sooner: Choosing a shorter-term loan you can comfortably afford allows you to speed up your repayment schedule and save on total interest charges. - Lowers your monthly payment: Choosing a longer-term loan may reduce your payment, but it also means you'll pay more in interest charges over time. - While a debt consolidation loan could save money and make it easier to manage your debt, it may not be a good option if: It charges a higher interest rate: If your credit is below average, you may not qualify for a lower interest rate than what you currently pay. In that case, consider taking the time to improve your credit before applying for a personal loan or use other methods of debt payoff, such as the debt avalanche or debt snowball strategy (more on these below). - It results in more debt: Debt consolidation loans wipe out your credit card balances by transferring the debt to an installment loan. But if you continue to use the cards, you could rack up new charges on your newly paid off accounts and end up with more debt than when you started. - Your debt balances are low: If you can pay off your existing debt in less than a year, the savings from a debt consolidation loan may be too minimal to be worth pursuing. - 2. Determine How Much You'll Need While you're at it, take a close look at your debts to figure out exactly how much you'll want to consolidate. Make a list of all the debt accounts you plan to include, along with their payoff amounts, interest rates and monthly payments. Add up your payment amounts to determine the total amount of your
