---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/best-online-brokers-4587872
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:08:17.761941+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
foreign and domestic assets Powerful and highly customizable professional-level functionality Cons IBKR's SmartRouting not available to IBKR Lite clients TWS can be difficult to learn No in-platform backtesting Often confusing tiered pricing Overview Founded under the name T.P. & Co. in 1978 by its current chairman, Thomas Peterffy, the company pioneered the use of computers in trading. Eventually, Interactive Brokers Inc. was incorporated as a U.S. broker-dealer in 1993, and the company has since developed into one of the industry’s most complete online brokerage platforms. Interactive Brokers (IBKR) offers astonishing access to 160 markets in 36 countries and support for its services in 200 countries and territories, all with funding and trading capabilities in up to 28 currencies. Simply put, this is by far the broadest global coverage in the industry. As of October 2025, IBKR held over $757.5 Billion in client equity. One of the first adopters of technology in the financial markets, both algorithmic and active traders have long regarded the company highly for its advanced trading features, highly customizable tools, low margin rates, and alpha-generating capabilities. Investopedia's team of industry experts is constantly delighted by IBKR’s innovative enhancements, which make so much sense from a purist’s perspective. IBKR’s latest product innovation is IBKR Desktop, a next-generation platform that combines a simple user interface with many of the company’s powerful trading solutions. It features innovations like Option Lattice, a graphical options chain display highlighting potential outliers in key metrics, and MultiSort, which enables users to sort data using multiple factors simultaneously. Always looking for ways to use the latest technology to give clients an advantage, the company also recently launched AI-powered news summaries. This idea of simplicity is really where things have been getting interesting for Interactive Brokers, as the company has committed to making its platforms more accessible for beginners. With notable touches like the expansion of educational content across several platforms, including its entry-level IBKR Lite platform, available fractional investing, and the innovative and helpful Options Wizard tool offered on its user-friendly Global Trader mobile app (as well as other platforms), Interactive Brokers is quickly gaining ground on the industry’s top all-around brokerage platforms. Editor's Note: In addition to our review of Interactive Brokers' online brokerage platform, we've also reviewed the company's robo-advisor service, Interactive Advisors. tastytrade: Best Broker for Options 4.1 Open an Account Account Minimum: $0 Fees & Commissions: $0 stock trades, $1 to open options trades (capped at $10 per leg), $0 to close Read full review Open an Account Why We Chose It For the fourth year in a row, we chose tastytrade as the best options trading platform because of its industry-leading options pricing structure, which includes pricing caps that make it the lowest-cost brokerage for high-volume, high-frequency option traders. In addition, tastytrade optimizes tools and content to specifically suit the needs of its options-focused client base. Pros & Cons Pros Capped commission structure for options Highly regarded tools for analyzing and monitoring options trades Fantastic options-specific content and educational material Fully customizable trading experience Follow Feed feature allows users to follow trades of tastylive contributors Cons No on-platform paper trading support Few investing and retirement resources Lacks some key investment choices like mutual funds Overview Ask any options trader, and they are likely to tell you that this form of derivative trading is complex and difficult to master. But with the right guidance, the many options strategies that are available to use can become powerful weapons that allow both traders and investors to benefit from key factors like time decay and leverage. Created by the same people who developed TD Ameritrade’s highly regarded thinkorswim platform, tastytrade maintains its stance as the best broker for options because of its intuitive delivery of an industry-best mix of comprehensive options-focused tools and content. Launched as tastyworks in 2017 and headquartered in Chicago, tastytrade
