---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/tax-deductions-for-self-employed-taxpayers/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:15.626731+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:07 GMT
---
for 2026. - Start a Savings Incentive Match Plan for Employees (SIMPLE IRA) to provide retirement plan contributions with employer matching funds for you and your employees. You can contribute up to $16,500 in 2025 and $17,000 in 2026. Individuals who qualify for a higher SIMPLE contribution under SECURE 2.0 can contribute up to $17,600 in 2025 and $18,100 in 2026. - You can contribute to a Solo 401(k) as both an employee and employer. In 2025, the contribution limit for employees is $23,500; employers can contribute an additional 25% of earned income. - Learn more: Ways to Save for Retirement When You're Self-Employed 9. Computer You may be able to deduct the full cost of a computer you purchase for your business using a Section 179 deduction, which allows you to deduct the full cost of qualifying tangible personal property, including computer equipment and off-the-shelf computer software. Alternatively, you can make multiyear deductions for depreciation on computer equipment and other tangible property you own, such as buildings, machinery, furniture and equipment. 10. Employee Pay and Benefits If you have employees, reasonable compensation and benefits are deductible from your net business income. Eligible employee pay includes: Salary and wages - Awards and bonuses - Education expenses - Fringe benefits, including health insurance - Loans or advances you don't expect the employee to repay - Property transferred in lieu of payment - Reimbursement for employee business expenses - Sick pay and vacation pay - 11. Meals You can deduct 50% of meals for you or your employees, but under limited circumstances. Deductible meals do not include entertainment. The expense can't be "lavish or extravagant," according to the IRS. You or an employee must be present, though you can include meals for clients, consultants or similar business contacts. Finally, meals should be part of the ordinary course of conducting business; for example, having lunch while traveling for business or attending an out-of-town meeting with a client. 12. Travel Deduct the cost of airfare, taxis, lodging, non-entertainment meals, dry cleaning and tips for any business travel you do. The IRS offers specific guidelines for qualified business travel, and warns against deducting expenses that are "lavish, extravagant or for personal purposes." Keep detailed records, including receipts, credit card statements and notes on your travels and any meetings you take. 13. Vehicle Expenses or Mileage In 2025, the standard mileage deduction for self-employed people is 70 cents per mile. You can track your mileage by keeping a log of your business-related trips, including where you went, miles traveled and your reason for traveling. Multiply your business miles by 0.7 to get your mileage deduction. The standard mileage deduction adjusts annually for inflation. Alternatively, you can deduct a percentage of your actual car expenses when you drive your personal car for business. Divide your total miles by your business miles to get the percentage of business use. If, for example, you use your car for business 20% of the time, you can deduct 20% of your lease payments, car registration fees, insurance, gas, repairs and maintenance. Learn more: How to Deduct Mileage for Taxes 14. Interest on Business Loans and Credit Cards Interest on loans or credit cards you've used to cover business expenses is deductible. Only the portion of interest that applies to business expenses qualifies, however: If 40% of the balance on your credit card was used for personal expenses, you may only deduct the 60% of your total interest that relates to business expenses. Learn more: Is Credit Card Interest Tax Deductible? 15. Bad Debts If you have uncollectable debts that have become worthless, you may be able to deduct the debt as a business expense. Bad business debts are often the result of extending credit to clients or customers, or to employees, distributors or suppliers. To be deductible, a bad debt (or
