---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/personal-loans-what-to-know-before-you-apply/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:20.956291+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:58 GMT
---
lenders may only offer loans for specific purposes, such as debt consolidation. - Funding time: Once you're approved, most lenders will fund your loan within a few days. But if your need for cash is urgent, try to find lenders that offer next-day or possibly even same-day funding. If you're consolidating debt, check to see if the lender is able to make a direct payment to your creditors. - Discounts: Some lenders offer an interest rate discount if you set up automatic payments or if you have an existing relationship with the financial institution. Just keep in mind that lenders may incorporate those discounts into your quote. - 6. Choose a Lender and Apply Once you've decided which lender has the best offer, you can typically apply via the lender's website. The process can vary slightly depending on which one you choose, but in general, you'll need to provide the following information: Identity: You'll need to share your name, date of birth and Social Security number. You might also need to upload a copy of your driver's license or another government-issued photo ID. - Contact information: This includes your address, email address and phone number. - Employment and income: You may need to share your employment status, including your employer's name and contact information, as well as your gross annual income. In some cases, you may need to provide documentation, such as a recent pay stub, W-2 form, tax returns or bank statements. - Housing status: You may be asked if you rent or own your residence and what your monthly payment is. - Loan terms: You'll be asked how much you want to borrow and how you plan to use the funds. You may also have the option to share your desired repayment term. - Once you submit your application, the lender will formally review your creditworthiness. You can often get a decision within seconds, though some lenders may take more time to evaluate your financial and credit profiles. Learn more: Where Can I Get a Personal Loan? 7. Review the Offer and Accept the Loan Unlike prequalification, an official loan application typically requires a hard inquiry, which can impact your credit score, albeit temporarily. This deeper dive into your creditworthiness allows the lender to give you a firm offer, which may or may not be the same as the initial quote. Once you're approved, review the offer and the loan's terms and conditions to make sure it's the right fit. If your terms aren't quite what you expected, you can go back and apply with a different lender. If you're happy with the terms, sign the loan agreement, and the lender will disburse the loan funds based on its funding timeline. Tip: If you're denied, lenders are required to inform you the reason why in an adverse action letter. After reviewing the letter, you can take action to remedy any issues before applying again. Learn more: If I Get Approved for a Personal Loan, Do I Need to Accept It? Frequently Asked Questions Get Matched With Personal Loans Based on Your Credit Profile Getting prequalified with multiple lenders can be time-consuming. Fortunately, Experian allows you to get matched with offers from multiple lenders at once based on your Experian credit profile. This service speeds up the process for prequalification and also makes it easier to compare loan options side by side. Need a personal loan? Whether you're looking to eliminate debt or access cash fast, compare personal loan offers matched to your credit profile. Start now for freeAbout the author Ben Luthi has worked in financial planning, banking and auto finance, and writes about all aspects of money. His work has appeared in Time, Success, USA Today, Credit Karma, NerdWallet, Wirecutter and more. Read more from Ben
