---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-card-payoff-calculator/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:11.290725+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
Credit Card Payoff Calculator Paying off credit card debt can help you save money on interest and improve your overall financial well-being. Whether you have just one credit card or many, you can use this calculator to figure out how long it'll take to pay off your debt and how much interest it'll cost you. How to Use This Calculator For each credit card you have, enter the current balance, the annual percentage rate (APR) and your monthly payment. When you enter the balance and APR, an estimated minimum payment will automatically show up in the third field, but you can change it based on your actual payment amount. When you click the Calculate button, you'll see several things to help inform your debt payoff strategy, including: The month and year you'll be debt-free - The number of payments you'll need to make - Total interest you'll pay - Total payment amount, including interest and principal - You can also click on the Payment Schedule tab to see exactly how much of each payment will go toward interest and how much will go toward paying down your balance. Remember, you can add multiple credit cards to the calculator. And as you define your strategy for eliminating credit card debt, you can enter different payment amounts to see how much time and money you'll save. How to Pay Off Credit Card Debt Depending on your situation, you may have several different options to pay off your credit card debt. If you're not planning to consolidate your credit card balances (see below for more), there are two approaches you can use: the debt snowball method and the debt avalanche method. The debt snowball method involves making just the minimum payments on all of your credit cards except for the one with the lowest balance. Take any extra money you have to put toward your debt every month, and apply it to that card. Once that card is paid off, you'll take the monthly payment you were putting toward it and apply that to the card with the next-lowest balance (on top of its minimum monthly payment). You'll continue that same strategy until all of your balances are paid off. The debt avalanche method works similarly, but instead of targeting cards based on their balance, you'll work on paying off the cards with the highest interest rates first. Neither method is inherently better than the other, so choose the right one for you based on your goals and preferences. With the debt snowball method, for instance, you'll be guaranteed to pay off smaller balances first, which can give you the wins you need to keep your motivation going. With the debt avalanche method, focusing on higher interest rates first could save you more money on interest charges. Depending on the makeup of your credit card debt, however, those savings may not be much higher than what you'd achieve with the debt snowball approach. How Does Credit Card Debt Consolidation Work? If your credit score is in good shape, debt consolidation may be an excellent way to pay off your debt faster and save money along the way. Consolidating credit card debt involves paying off your existing debt with a new credit card or personal loan, preferably with better terms. Here's a breakdown of how each debt consolidation option works: Balance transfer credit cards: With a balance transfer credit card, you can transfer debt from one or more existing cards to a new one. Many balance transfer cards offer an introductory 0% APR promotion, which means you can pay off your debt interest-free during the promotional period. Some of these cards charge an upfront fee of up to 5% of the transfer amount, but that may be worth it for the interest savings. - Personal loans: You can use personal loans for just about
