---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-information-is-updated-continuously/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:29.137778+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:22 GMT
---
apply for a loan or credit card. - Soft inquiries: A soft inquiry is a request for your credit information that's unrelated to an application for new credit. These happen in situations such as when you check your own credit report, one of your existing creditors checks your credit to possibly market new products or services to you, or you're setting up an account with a new utility company and they check your credit to determine if you'll have to pay a security deposit, for example. While soft inquiries show up on your credit report, they have no bearing on your credit scores. - Collection accounts: If a bill you've failed to pay is turned over to a collection department or agency, an entry typically appears on your credit reports. This applies to unpaid loans and credit card accounts but also to other debts that are not usually tracked on credit reports, such as utility bills and medical bills. - Bankruptcy filings: If you seek bankruptcy protection, an entry typically appears on your credit reports within a month or two of the date you file your petition with the court. - How Long Does Information Stay on My Credit Report? While the addition of new information means continual change for your credit reports, so does the eventual disappearance of older information. Entries "fall off" your credit report at intervals that depend on the nature of the information they contain. Negative Entries Most negative entriesârecords of credit missteps that can cause declines in credit scoresâ expire after seven years. These include: Late payments - Debts in default (obligations that have gone 90 days or longer without a scheduled payment) - Collection accounts - Foreclosures - Repossessions - Loans or credit card accounts closed by a lender for failure to meet payment requirements - Chapter 13 bankruptcies - Chapter 7 Bankruptcy A notable exception to the seven-year rule for negative information is Chapter 7 bankruptcy. Also known as dissolution bankruptcy, Chapter 7 bankruptcy remains on your credit reports for 10 years from the date of the bankruptcy filing. Credit Inquiries Hard inquiries, which can cause small, temporary dips in credit scores, expire after two years. So do soft inquiries, which have no effect on credit scores. Accounts in Good Standing Positive entries and accounts closed in good standing stay on your credit reports for as long as 10 years. This includes loans you've paid off as agreed and credit card accounts closed in good standing. Learn more: How Long Does It Take for Information to Come Off Your Credit Reports? When Are Credit Scores Updated? A credit score is calculated using the contents of a credit report from one of the three national credit bureaus. The score reflects the contents of that report at the moment the score is requested, whether by you, a creditor or another legally allowed entity. Frequent changes to credit reports, as described above, mean a score derived today from a given credit report will likely be different from one taken on a different day, or perhaps even a few hours earlier or later. Also, because creditors typically update each credit bureau on somewhat different schedules, credit scores based on data from different credit bureaus, even if calculated at the exact same date and time, using identical scoring software, will seldom be the same. This variability in credit reports and scores is normal, and lenders recognize it. When making lending decisions, many lenders compensate for these variations by using scores based on data from two or even all three credit bureaus. Learn more: Why Are My Credit Scores Different? Check Your Credit Report With Experian Continual change is the normal state of credit reports, and it's typical for credit scores based on those reports to shift up and down from month to month. If you adopt good credit
