---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-get-a-personal-loan-without-a-credit-check/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:23.716434+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:44 GMT
---
How to Get a Personal Loan With No Credit Check Quick Answer You can get a no-credit-check loan by applying through lenders that use alternative information, such as your income and banking history, to approve you. Alternatively, consider other ways to borrow, such as using paycheck advance apps. If possible, take time to build credit before you apply for a personal loan. It's possible to get a personal loan without a credit check, but no-credit-check personal loans can be limited. Many come with extremely high interest rates. If you don't need the loan urgently, taking steps to improve your credit before you apply for a loan can help you save on interest. When you need cash now, don't discount alternative borrowing options, such as paycheck advance apps or loans from family and friends. Here's what to know about getting a personal loan with no credit check. Can I Get a Personal Loan With No Credit Check? Yes, you may be able to get a personal loan with no credit check. But no-credit-check loans often come with high interest and fees. For example, payday loans have short repayment terms and rates averaging 400% annual percentage rate (APR) or more, making them a risky option. On the other end of the spectrum, you may be able to find online lenders that use alternative data, such as banking data and rental history, to approve you for a loan. That said, lenders that accept alternative data may still require at least fair credit. Personal loan terms vary by lender and loan, so carefully review the details of a new loan before you apply. Learn more: Is it Ever Good to Get a Payday Loan? How No-Credit-Check Loans Work No-credit-check loans typically work by using your employment status and income to qualify you. They're often unsecured, meaning you don't have to put down collateral to qualify. Once you're approved, you'll be expected to repay your loan, plus interest and fees, over a set period of time. Because conventional loans use your credit as a way to gauge your ability to repay a loan, they charge a rate of interest proportional to your risk to a lender. Without a credit check, no-credit loans typically offset risk by charging much higher interest. Why It May Be Best To Avoid Some No-Credit-Check Loans No-credit-check loans may seem like a good option when you're in a pinch and have a low credit score, but certain no-credit-check loans are often a bad idea. First, with rates sometimes reaching into the triple digits, loans that don't require a credit check could become a serious burden on your finances. Once you take on high-interest debt, digging your way out can be challenging. Also, no-credit-check lendersâspecifically payday loan lendersâmay not report your new loan or your loan payments to the three credit bureaus (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax), so repayment may not help you build your credit history. Over time, you'll be missing out on the opportunity to establish creditworthiness and qualify for better borrowing options. Combined with high fees, this could keep you in a cycle of relying on risky borrowing options when you need money. Alternatives to No-Credit-Check Loans Because no-credit-check loans often make up for your lack of credit history by charging higher interest rates or fees, it may be in your favor to look elsewhere when you need financing. Fortunately, there are many alternative borrowing options to choose from. Here are some options to consider. Paycheck advance apps: Early payday apps are similar to payday loans in that they can provide you with emergency cash between paychecks and typically require no credit check. Unlike a payday loan, these apps review your finances to determine your eligibility to borrow and charge much lower fees, making them a cheaper option. - Payday alternative loans (PALs): If you've been a member of a
