---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-save-money/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:17.371126+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:50 GMT
---
26 Simple Ways to Save Money Quick Answer To save money, try new strategies such as setting a savings goal, tracking your spending, making a budget, reducing discretionary expenses, trying a savings challenge and paying down debt. Whether you're aiming for a solid emergency fund or a secure retirement, achieving your financial goals starts with a smart approach to saving. Fortunately, saving money can be easier than you may think. Put aside just $13.70 per day, and at the end of the year you'll have $5,000; double that to $27.39 daily and you'll have $10,000 by year-endâand that doesn't include the interest you may earn. You can save money by making a budget, automating savings, reducing discretionary spending and seeking discounts. Here are 26 ways to save money. Set a goal - Track expenses - Make a budget - Automate savings - Cancel unused subscriptions - Buy generic brands - Look for discounts and coupons - Join a buy nothing group - Shut down impulse spending - Pause before you purchase - Cut utility usage - Try a savings challenge - Pay down debt - Consolidate debt - Reduce restaurant spending - Learn to DIY - Cut you cable, phone and internet bills - Use a rewards credit card - Shop around for insurance savings - Find inexpensive ways to treat yourself - Buddy up - Earn more money - Cut your transportation costs - Trim your housing expenses - Find free or low-cost fun - Swap with friends and family - 1. Set a Goal Having a goal to work toward will help you determine how much to saveâand help you stay motivated to stick to your savings plan. For example, you might want to save up for a vacation or a down payment on a new car. Maybe you'd like to build an emergency fund so you can stop relying on credit cards for unexpected expenses. Figure out when you want to achieve your goal and how much you'll need to save each month to do so. 2. Track Expenses Tracking your spending for a month or so can be eye-opening and may reveal easy ways to save. You can track your expenses using paper and pencil, a spreadsheet on your computer or the note-taking app on your phone. Some banks offer expense-tracking apps. You can also download an expense tracker app such as Dollarbird, Fudget or GoodBudget. Many expense-tracking apps include budgeting features too. 3. Make a Budget Following a budget helps ensure your monthly spending doesn't exceed your income. To make a budget, determine your monthly income after taxes, as well as your monthly fixed and variable expenses. Also include things like property taxes, car maintenance, holiday gifts and other quarterly or annual expenses. There are plenty of ways to budget. The 50/30/20 budgeting method is a popular option in which 50% of your after-tax income goes to necessities, 30% goes to discretionary spending and 20% goes to savings or paying off debt. If you want to account for every dollar, you can try zero-based budgeting. You can also consider budgeting apps such as PocketGuard, You Need a Budget or HoneyDue to help you stick to your budget. Learn more: Types of Budget Plans to Know About 4. Automate Savings Simplify savings by setting up automatic transfers into your savings account each time you get paid. You can typically do this through your employer or by using your bank's mobile app or website. You may even have the option to split your savings into multiple savings accountsâfor example, one account for your emergency fund and another for your upcoming honeymoon. Grow your savings faster by choosing a high-yield savings account, which typically offers interest earnings significantly higher than those of standard savings accounts. Earn Money Faster Compare high-yield savings accounts Find a high-yield savings account with
