---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/liability-vs-full-coverage-car-insurance/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:16.354773+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:55 GMT
---
Liability vs. Full Coverage Car Insurance: Which Is Better? Quick Answer Full coverage car insurance is often better than liability-only coverage because it offers the most protection. Full coverage auto insurance will likely replace or repair your car and help out with medical bills if your car is in a wreck or stolen. If you only have liability coverage, it will offer financial help to the other driver and not you. When buying car insurance or reviewing car insurance quotes, you may face a key question: Should I buy liability only or full coverage? If your car is older and repairs likely will cost more than the car's value, you may lean toward liability-only coverage. Or you may prefer the protection full coverage offers, especially if your car still has significant value and would be expensive to repair. So what's the better choice? Unless your lender or leasing company requires full coverage, it's up to you to decide how much insurance to carry. If you aren't sure whether to go with liability or full coverage, start by examining what each insurance option has to offer. What Is Liability Coverage? Liability coverage, sometimes referred to as liability-only coverage, is a form of car insurance that will pay for the damages and medical bills that befall another driver and passengers in an accident that is determined to be your fault. With liability coverage, your insurance policy will pay for medical expenses of the other driver and passengers if you cause an accident. Any additional expenses will need to be covered by you. That includes medical treatment for any injuries you or your passengers might have, the cost to replace your totaled car and the cost to rent a car while you're without a vehicle. Essentially, liability will often cover the following for the other drivers and their passengers: Property damage, such as damage to another car or a building - Medical bills - Another driver's lost wages due to injuries - A rental car for the other driver to drive while their car is repaired - Pros and Cons of Liability Coverage If you're thinking of buying liability coverage, it's important to review the benefits and drawbacks of doing so. Pros You'll pay less for coverage. Liability coverage is usually a much cheaper form of car insurance than full coverage. For instance, Liberty Mutual's website says that consumers can expect to pay 64% more for full coverage than a liability-only policy. - It fulfills legal requirements for insurance. Driving without insurance is against the law in most states, so you really have to buy liability if you want to legally get behind the wheel of a car. Even in states that allow you to drive without insurance, you still need proof that you can pay for damages in the event of an accident. So if money is tight, liability insurance allows you to pay less, to legally drive. - Cons Your own vehicle isn't covered. If your car is damaged in a wreck that you caused, your insurance will pay for the damage done to another vehicle and medical bills for the other party, but you'll be on your own when it comes to your vehicle or injuries. - You won't have any coverage for incidents other than collisions. If your car is banged up due to hail or a collision with a deer, or if your car is stolen, your liability insurance will not cover you. - What Is Full Coverage? Full coverage generally refers to having comprehensive and collision insurance, as well as liability insurance. Because of that, if you want "full coverage," you'll want to read over the fine print of any insurance policy you pay for and make sure you're actually covered for everything you think you are. But typically, if you get full coverage for your vehicle,
