---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/good-debt-vs-bad-debt-whats-the-difference/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:17.558896+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:30 GMT
---
Good Debt vs. Bad Debt: Whatâs the Difference? Quick Answer Good debt is debt that you take on to achieve meaningful growth in your personal life or finances, like a mortgage or student loan. Bad debt is relatively expensive debt and debt that someone takes on for unnecessary expenses, like credit card debt. Some people consider any debt to be bad. Others take a more nuanced approach. You might categorize debt as either good or bad depending on how you're using the money you borrow, the terms you receive and how the debt could benefit you. Here's what to know about good debt versus bad debt and why understanding the differences between the two could help your long-term financial health. What Is Good Debt? Good debt tends to be debt that allows someone to achieve meaningful personal goals or could lead to long-term financial gain. For example, someone who wants to become an attorney may need to borrow a lot of money for law school. They might graduate with over $100,000 in debt, but the loans allow them to achieve their dream and potentially set them on a path toward a lucrative career. Examples of Good Debt Although what counts as good debt may be subjective, some common examples include: Mortgages: Buying a home can offer housing security and stability, and home ownership can be an important way to build wealth. Most people need to take out a loan that's secured by their homeâa mortgageâto purchase a home. They build equity, or ownership, in the property as they pay off the loan. - Student loans: A student loan can help you pay for vocational training or degree-granting programs. There are federal student loan programs that don't require good credit and offer relatively low interest rates. Private student loans might be a less desirable option because they could have higher interest rates and fewer repayment options, and they aren't eligible for many federal forgiveness programs. - Business loans: Starting a business often requires a large initial investment, and running or growing a business can require additional business loans or lines of credit. These could be classified as good debt when they allow you to create a business that supports you and your employees. - Interest-free loans: You might qualify for an interest-free loan for certain types of purchases. For example, you might receive an interest-free loan to make energy-efficient home improvements or as part of a down payment assistance program. Some nonprofit organizations also offer interest-free loans to students, small business owners and people who want to improve their credit. - Refinanced debt: Refinancing existing debt with a new loan or line of credit could be a strategic move that saves you money or makes your monthly payments easier to manage. Some people use a home equity line of credit, home equity loan, personal loan or balance transfer credit card to refinance and consolidate debts. - What Is Bad Debt? You might classify debt as bad debt based on how the borrower uses the money, the debt's terms or whether the debt will yield long-term benefits. For example, if you take out a loan for discretionary purchases, such as a vacation or shopping, you could end up paying significant interest charges over time. That might be considered a poor use of debt. A debt that has a high interest rate or fees could also be considered bad debt, even if you use the debt for an essential purchase. One way to compare loans is to calculate the annual percentage rate (APR) of the various options to see which one will cost more on an annualized basis. A loan's APR considers the interest rate, certain fees and repayment term. APR calculator Examples of Bad Debt Some common examples of bad debt include: Credit card debt: Credit cards often have high interest rates,
