---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/best-cd-rates/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:19.709382+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:57 GMT
---
Best CD Rates of November 2025 A certificate of deposit (CD) is a type of savings account that allows your money to earn interest for a certain amount of time. When that term ends, you'll get back your initial deposit plus interest. The national average CD rate is currently around 2.42% for a $10,000 deposit and one-year termâbut it's possible to earn more, especially if you open a CD with a credit union or online bank. As of November 2025, some are offering yields over 4%. Certificate of Deposit Rates Term | Rate | ---|---| 3-month | 1.51% | 6-month | 2.35% | 1-year | 2.42% | 18-month | 2.10% | 2-year | 2.08% | 3-year | 2.06% | 4-year | 1.80% | 5-year | 1.93% | Source: Curinos LLC; $10,000 deposit amount Annual percentage yields (APYs) are an important factor when looking for a CD. This number tells you exactly how much your money will earn. The higher the interest rate, the better the return. Online banks and credit unions tend to offer the best CD ratesâbut there are exceptions, so it's always a good idea to shop around. Knowing what to expect can help you find a CD with a competitive rate. Here are national average CD rates based on financial institution type: Institution Type | Rate | ---|---| Bank | 1.50% | Credit union | 3.14% | Online bank | 3.13% | Source: Curinos LLC; $10,000 deposit amount, one-year term APYs can also fluctuate depending on your deposit amount. In many cases, you may qualify for a better rate if you have a larger opening deposit. That's a good thing if you've got extra money to invest and a CD aligns with your financial goals. Below are national average CD rates based on deposit amount: Deposit Amount | Rate | ---|---| $10,000 | 2.42% | $25,000 | 2.43% | Source: Curinos LLC; one-year term Where you live could also affect the interest rate you'll get on a CD. Across the United States, average APYs can vary. However, it's possible to find a competitive rate, regardless of your location. Here's a snapshot of average CD rates by state: Average CD Rate by State State | Average Rate | ---|---| Alabama | 2.22% | Alaska | 3.08% | Arizona | 2.79% | Arkansas | 2.40% | California | 2.36% | Colorado | 2.57% | Connecticut | 2.61% | Delaware | 2.80% | District of Columbia | 2.89% | Florida | 2.03% | Georgia | 2.34% | Hawaii | 2.85% | Idaho | 2.73% | Illinois | 1.78% | Indiana | 1.99% | Iowa | 2.08% | Kansas | 2.39% | Kentucky | 2.02% | Louisiana | 2.51% | Maine | 2.71% | Maryland | 2.66% | Massachusetts | 2.37% | Michigan | 2.39% | Minnesota | 2.45% | Mississippi | 2.11% | Missouri | 1.98% | Montana | 2.72% | Nebraska | 2.47% | Nevada | 2.73% | New Hampshire | 2.48% | New Jersey | 2.46% | New Mexico | 2.55% | New York | 2.20% | North Carolina | 2.32% | North Dakota | 2.81% | Ohio | 1.83% | Oklahoma | 2.77% | Oregon | 2.44% | Pennsylvania | 2.20% | Rhode Island | 2.84% | South Carolina | 2.39% | South Dakota | 2.85% | Tennessee | 2.31% | Texas | 2.66% | Utah | 2.95% | Vermont | 2.66% | Virginia | 2.61% | Washington | 2.65% | West Virginia | 2.39% | Wisconsin | 2.33% | Wyoming | 2.88% | Source: Curinos LLC; $10,000 deposit amount, one-year term Is Now a Good Time to Get a CD? CD rates move up and down and can vary by term length, deposit amount and financial institution. APYs are largely affected by the federal funds rate, which is a benchmark rate set by the Federal Reserve.
