---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/data/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:06.057220+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
data assets more readily available and accessible to the public. Read the DGB charter Enterprise Data Strategy The Enterprise Data Strategy builds on the CFPB’s strong data governance structure and is informed by the need for an agile approach to the work, innovative data management, the upskilling of staff, and robust knowledge management capture. The strategy supports the execution of the CFPB’s Strategic Plan and provides a shared agenda for the CFPB to leverage the full potential of data to achieve our mission. Vision The CFPB leverages the full potential of data to meet its mission; and proactively and securely shares quality data and research to keep pace with statutory mandates and an evolving data-driven economy. Foundational principles Guiding the strategy Protect Confidential Information & Secure Data - Foster a Data Culture - Governed Data Sharing & Democratization - Data Informed Decision-Making - Scale & Innovate Leveraging Technology - Priorities Turning the strategy into action Increase External Data Publication - Build a Modern Data Platform - Enable Quality Research & Analysis - Increase Awareness and Knowledge About Data - Foster Data Literacy - Download the Enterprise Data Strategy handout FOIA reports, logs, and frequently requested records The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) is a law that enables members of the public to request records from the government. Our FOIA team responds to FOIA requests and frequently updates our FOIA Reading Room with proactive disclosures and other frequently requested records. The CFPB’s FOIA Reading Room contains logs of closed FOIA requests, productions of the most frequently requested records under the FOIA, and the CFPB’s FOIA annual reporting to the Department of Justice. FOIA requesters may contact the CFPB’s FOIA team to check on the status of their FOIA request or assist in the resolution of FOIA disputes. Read about the Freedom of Information Act Browse the FOIA Reading Room Email the CFPB's FOIA Public Liaison We take your privacy seriously The CFPB collects only the minimum amount of personally identifiable information (PII) needed, whether it is to assist with your consumer financial issue or to work on consumer issues more broadly. When releasing data, we are careful to protect the privacy and confidentiality of the data asset. Submit a question Do you have a data-related question or want to learn more? Email CFPB_OCDO@cfpb.gov. Page last modified @
