---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-debt-relief-companies-8763179
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:00.590678+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Highest-Rated Debt Relief Company? National Debt Relief is the highest-rated debt relief company, according to Investopedia's independent research. It offers debt settlement services across most of the country, for relatively low fees compared to other debt relief companies. Does Debt Relief Destroy Your Credit? Different debt relief options have different effects on your credit. Debt settlement—paying off an account balance for less than you owe—will cause quite a bit of damage to your credit, but it could be well worth the price of debt forgiveness. It'll stay on your credit reports for seven years, although the negative effect diminishes over time even before it drops off. Bankruptcy is similar, although your debt may be completely eliminated. A debt management plan through a credit counseling agency has no direct effect on your credit. Are There Government Grants to Pay Off Debt? In general, there are no federal government debt relief programs to pay off personal debts like personal loans, credit cards, and auto loans. There may be programs to help with those kinds of debt from your state of residence, but not from the federal government.You can find some forms of federal government debt relief for other types of debt, however. Mortgages may be eligible for forbearance or modification, and special situations may prompt the government to act—a Homeowner Assistance Fund, for example, was set up for homeowners who struggled to make payments during the COVID pandemic. There are also debt relief programs for federal student loans (not private student loans), like deferment, forbearance, forgiveness in certain circumstances, and income-based repayment plans. What Are the Downsides of Debt Relief Programs? The main downsides of debt relief programs are their costs and their effects on your credit. Debt settlement, for example, requires you to pay some portion of the debt; if you work with a debt settlement company, you'll also be charged a hefty fee based on the amount of debt involved. Debt settlement requires you to become delinquent on your debts, which is bad for your credit, and then debt settlement itself has a negative effect. Which Is Better, Debt Consolidation or Debt Relief? The right option for you depends on your situation. If your debts are fairly manageable and you have decent credit, debt consolidation may provide some relief by lowering your total monthly payment and maybe your APR. If your debts are more overwhelming, debt relief through debt settlement or bankruptcy may be required. We recommend speaking with a credit counselor (for free) to better understand your situation and your best options. Should I Pay Off Credit Card Debt First? Yes, in general it does make sense to pay off credit card debt first because credit cards tend to have some of the highest interest rates among types of debt. This fits with the debt avalanche method of debt repayment, in which you make the minimum payment on all your debts and then allocate any extra money toward the debt with the highest interest rate. This helps you save the most money on interest over time. How Fast Should I Pay Off My Student Loans? Compared to other types of debt, paying off student loans usually isn't a priority. This is because student loans tend to have relatively low interest rates, so they're not as expensive to hold as other types of debt, like credit cards and personal loans. But, if you have some money in savings and some cash to spare, it generally makes sense to pay extra toward your student loans to pay them off faster and save on interest. How We Chose the Best Debt Relief Companies Investopedia's research and editorial teams researched the debt relief industry by collecting information directly from company websites and representatives, analyzing consumer sentiment, and conducting a competitive analysis. Investopedia researched 26 debt relief companies (offering either debt settlement, credit counseling,
