---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-earn-extra-money-on-your-savings/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:51.547442+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:42 GMT
---
Maintain a specific minimum account balance - If you meet the eligibility requirements, your bank will typically deposit the bonus directly into your account. Tip: Don't open a bank account just for the bonus. Some banks charge a variety of account fees, which you may or may not be able to waive. Read the fine print, understand the bonus offer and make sure the account is a good fit before opening a new account. 4. Compare Interest Rates Interest rates vary widely across savings accounts. For example, several of the largest national banks offer savings accounts that earn just 0.01% APY. Meanwhile, the best high-yield savings accounts are earning more than 4.00% APY. Over time, this difference in APY has a major effect on the growth of your savings. For example, say you make a one-time deposit of $10,000 into a traditional savings account earning 0.01% APY. In five years, your balance would be $10,005. But if you deposit that $10,000 into a high-yield savings account earning 4.00% APY, your balance would grow to about $12,166 during that same time period. Account Type | Initial Balance | APY | Account Balance After 5 Years | ---|---|---|---| Traditional savings account | $10,000 | 0.01% | $10,005 | ---|---|---|---| High-yield savings account | $10,000 | 4.00% | $12,166 | ---|---|---|---| Tip: Online banks and credit unions tend to offer more competitive savings rates compared to traditional banks. When looking for the highest rates, center your search on these types of financial institutions. 5. Open a CD If you want to earn even more than you can with a high-yield savings account, consider certificates of deposit (CDs)âor better yet, high-yield CDs. While these accounts offer competitive fixed interest rates, they come with a trade-off: You generally can't touch the money in your account for the length of the CD's term. If you withdraw your money early, you'll face a penalty. Due to their rigidity, CDs are best for money you know you won't need in the immediate future. For example, you shouldn't put your emergency savings into a CD, as you'll have to pay penalties if you need the money before the CD matures. If you want to take advantage of CDs' interest rates while maintaining some flexibility, you can try using a CD ladder. This savings strategy involves opening CDs with staggered maturity dates to make sure you have regular, predictable access to a portion of your savings. Tip: There are some CDs that don't penalize early withdrawals, aptly called no-penalty CDs. But they typically offer lower APYs in exchange for their flexibility. 6. Consider a Money Market Account If you want a way to make convenient payments while still earning interest on your savings, consider a money market account. Money market accounts blend certain features of checking and savings accounts into one, including features such as: Competitive interest rates - Convenient transaction tools, like checks or a debit card - Federal insurance on up to $250,000 per institution, per depositor and per ownership category - While money market accounts can outearn certain savings accounts, they may be less accessible to beginning savers, as some money market accounts come with high minimum deposit requirements. You may even have to maintain a certain minimum balance to earn an account's advertised APY. Tip: Some banks may limit the number of convenient transactions you make from your money market account. For this reason, a money market account isn't a perfect substitute for a checking account. 7. Buy Government Bonds Government bonds, or treasury bonds, are essentially loans you make to the U.S. Department of the Treasury. When you buy a bond, you loan money to the government with a guarantee that you'll be repaid, plus interest. These bonds pay a fixed rate of interest every six months until maturity, which is either 20 or 30
