---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-fraud-alert/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:45.171574+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:16 GMT
---
to assume that fraudsters and scammers may have access to your personal information. You can also place a fraud alert and freeze your credit if you want extra protection. And although managing freezes can be more work, they might provide more protection than a fraud alert. Learn more: Here's What You Should Do After a Data Breach How to Place a Fraud Alert Requesting a fraud alert is always free. For all three types of alerts, you only need to submit the request to one of the three major credit bureausâExperian, TransUnion or Equifaxâand it will forward your request on to the other two. You can use Experian's Fraud Alert Center to add an initial or active-duty alert to your credit report online (you may need to upload documents to verify your information). For extended fraud alerts, you'll need to mail a form and upload or include copies of the requested documents, including a copy of your identity theft report from a law enforcement agency. Here's an example of what a fraud alert looks like: How to Remove a Fraud Alert Fraud alerts will automatically be removed from your credit reports after one year or seven years, depending on the type of alert, unless you renew them. You can also remove a fraud alert earlier by contacting the credit bureaus. Unlike when you place the fraud alert, you'll need to contact each bureau separately to remove an alert before it expires. You can reach Experian using Experian's Fraud Alert Center or by mailing the request form and copies of the required documents to Experian. Does a Fraud Alert Affect Your Credit? Fraud alerts (and credit freezes) don't have any effect on your credit scores. However, adding fraud alerts to your credit reports could lead to a delay when you apply for a new credit card or loan because you'll need to wait for the creditor to verify your identity or contact you. While a fraud alert doesn't affect your credit, if you're a victim of identity theft there can be an impact to your credit. Monitor Your Credit and Identity Although fraud alerts can help protect you from credit fraud, you may still want to monitor your credit reports for unusual activity. With an Experian account, you can check your Experian credit report at any time, and you'll get free credit monitoring with real-time alerts. Experian also offers paid premium memberships that monitor other databases for signs of identity theft or fraud that aren't related to your credit, such as when someone takes over one of your financial accounts. Paid members also get access to fraud resolution support and up to $1 million in identity theft insurance. Have you been a victim of identity theft? Add another layer of protection to your credit by notifying lenders to take extra steps to verify your identity before processing new credit. Add a fraud alertAbout the author Louis DeNicola is freelance personal finance and credit writer who works with Fortune 500 financial services firms, FinTech startups, and non-profits to teach people about money and credit. His clients include BlueVine, Discover, LendingTree, Money Management International, U.S News and Wirecutter. Read more from Louis
