---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
methods of payments, except that, beginning 4 business days after receipt of information described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (a), a check services company shall not report to a national consumer reporting agency described in section 603(p), any information identified in the subject identity theft report as resulting from identity theft. § 605C - 15 U.S.C. § 1681c-3 41 (f) Access to blocked information by law enforcement agencies. No provision of this section shall be construed as requiring a consumer reporting agency to prevent a Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency from accessing blocked information in a consumer file to which the agency could otherwise obtain access under this title. § 605C. Adverse information in cases of trafficking [15 U.S.C. § 1681c-3] (a) Definitions . In this section: (1) Trafficking documentation . The term “trafficking documentation” means- (A) documentation of- (i) a determination that a consumer is a victim of trafficking made by a Federal, State, or Tribal governmental entity; or (ii) by a court of competent jurisdiction; and (B) documentation that identifies items of adverse information that should not be furnished by a consumer reporting agency because the items resulted from a severe form of trafficking in persons or sex trafficking of which the consumer is a victim. (2) Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 definitions . The terms “severe forms of trafficking in persons” and “sex trafficking” have the meanings given, respectively, in section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102). (3) Victim of trafficking . The term “victim of trafficking” means a person who is a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons or sex trafficking. (b) Adverse information . A consumer reporting agency may not furnish a consumer report containing any adverse item of information about a consumer that resulted from a severe form of trafficking in persons or sex trafficking if the consumer has provided trafficking documentation to the consumer reporting agency. (c) Rulemaking . (1) In general . Not later than 180 days after December 27, 2021, the Director shall issue rules to implement subsection (a). (2) Contents . The rules issued pursuant to paragraph (1) shall establish a method by which consumers shall submit trafficking documentation to consumer reporting agencies. 42§ 606 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681d § 606. Disclosure of investigative consumer reports [15 U.S.C. § 1681d] (a) Disclosure of fact of preparation . A person may not procure or cause to be prepared an investigative consumer report on any consumer unless (1) it is clearly and accurately disclosed to the consumer that an investigative consumer report including information as to his character, general reputation, personal characteristics and mode of living, whichever are applicable, may be made, and such disclosure (A) is made in a writing mailed, or otherwise delivered, to the consumer, not later than three days after the date on which the report was first requested, and (B) includes a statement informing the consumer of his right to request the additional disclosures provided for under subsection (b) of this section and the written summary of the rights of the consumer prepared pursuant to section 609(c) [§ 1681g]; and (2) the person certifies or has certified to the consumer reporting agency that (A) the person has made the disclosures to the consumer required by paragraph (1); and (B) the person will comply with subsection (b). (b) Disclosure on request of nature and scope of investigation . Any person who procures or causes to be prepared an investigative consumer report on any consumer shall, upon written request made by the consumer within a reasonable period of time after the receipt by him of the disclosure required by subsection (a)(1) of this section, make a complete and accurate disclosure of the nature and scope of the investigation requested. This disclosure shall be made
