---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/enforcement/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:02.646788+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Enforcement A central part our mission is to stand up for consumers and make sure they are treated fairly in the financial marketplace. One way we do this is by enforcing federal consumer financial laws and holding financial service providers accountable for their actions. When a bank, company, individual, or other entity breaks the law, we may take enforcement action against them. Payments to harmed consumers When we take action to enforce the law, we (or a court) may order the violator to remedy the harm it caused consumers by compensating victims for this harm. We may also give back money through our civil penalty fund or our redress program. Enforcement actions Find information about specific court cases and administrative proceedings that we’ve brought addressing violations of laws we enforce. Enforcement by the numbers To increase transparency of the Bureau’s public enforcement actions, we have posted summary data on all the Bureau’s public enforcement actions. Warning letters We sometimes send warning letters to advise recipients that certain actions may have violated federal law and to help those entities review certain practices to ensure that they comply with federal law. Investigatory authority We publish petitions to enforce, modify, or set aside Bureau civil investigative demands and the orders resolving those petitions. Industry whistleblowers If you’re a current or former employee of a company that you think has violated federal consumer laws—or an industry insider who knows of such a company—we want to hear from you. Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act (SBREFA) Read about rights of small businesses to fair regulatory enforcement and non-retaliation Page last modified @
