---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/category/criminal_law_and_procedure
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:10:11.405295+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
a fortiori A fortiori refers to an argument based on an even stronger previous argument. In Latin, the term literally means ‘from [the] stronger.’ The argument implies that if the first is true, the second is even more likely to be true. A fortiori refers to an argument based on an even stronger previous argument. In Latin, the term literally means ‘from [the] stronger.’ The argument implies that if the first is true, the second is even more likely to be true. A priori refers to an assertion based on prior knowledge or intuition. In Latin, the term literally means “from what is earlier.” An a priori determination is formed before investigation. For example, assuming that the road will be wet when it stops raining a minute before would be a priori reasoning. A priori is the opposite of a posteriori, or after-the-fact knowledge. An a priori assumption is an assumption that is presumed to be true without any assessment of the facts or without further proof. A.K.A. is the abbreviation of “also known as.” It is often used to specify a party’s aliases or nicknames in a case. [Last reviewed in November of 2024 by the Wex Definitions Team] Abatement ab initio is a rule in criminal law which negates a conviction if the defendant died before they could exhaust all appeals. In People v. Abet refers to criminally assisting another person in the commission of a crime including planning a crime, escaping from a crime, or in the actual commission of the crime. Abscond means leaving a jurisdiction secretly or suddenly, e.g. Absolute disparity is a calculation used to analyze a claim that a jury pool did not represent a fair cross-section of the community; for instance, a jury pool that is composed of only white jurors in a community that is predominantly Black. It is calculated by subtracting the percentage of a group in the jury pool from the percentage of that group in the general population.
