---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-use-a-credit-card/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:29.258255+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:52 GMT
---
bonus is often generousâsometimes enough for a one-way plane ticketâbut it typically requires spending a minimum amount on the card within the first few months of opening the account. Don't go into debt just for the rewards, however. Instead, time your big purchases to coincide with a reward, and make sure you've saved up for it first and can pay it off right away. - Intro 0% APR periods: Some credit card issuers incentivize applicants by offering a 0% intro APR period for a limited time, often 12 to 21 months. You can use these cards to transfer a high-interest debt balance or make a large purchase that you ideally pay off without owing interest. Read the fine print carefully, as some offers apply only to purchases or balance transfers, while some provide a 0% intro APR for both. Additionally, track when the regular APR kicks in so you don't accidentally end up with a large interest payment. - Insurance and other financial perks: Even non-rewards credit cards often come with little-known benefits that can save you money and hassle. Depending on your card, you might have access to purchase protection for items you buy with the card, along with travel perks like auto rental collision damage waiver, roadside assistance, baggage delay insurance and various types of coverage for travel delays, interruptions, cancellations and accidents. - How Credit Cards Impact Your Credit It's critical to know how your credit card habits impact your credit score. Below are the most important aspects of your credit score, and how credit cards play into them. Payment History With the FICOÂ® ScoreÎ, used by 90% of top lenders, your payment history is the single most important factor in calculating your credit score. Payment history counts for 35% of your FICOÂ® Score, and payments made more than 30 days late are reported and hurt your credit. While late or missed payments drag your score down, building a history of on-time payments can help boost your score over time. If you never use the account, consider putting a small monthly automatic payment on the cardâlike a utility bill or streaming serviceâthen pay it off right away each month. This can help you quickly build up a solid payment history without being overly reliant on your credit card. Credit Utilization Ratio The next most important factor in your FICOÂ® Scoreâaccounting for 30% of itâis the amount you owe on your accounts. While this includes your total balances on loans and lines of credit (including credit cards), one of the most important aspects of this category is your credit utilization ratio. Maintaining little or no debt is best, but if you must carry a balance, aim to use no more than 30% of your credit line at any time. Using more than 30% of available credit can do more significant damage your credit score, while keeping it under 10% can help your credit. Length of Credit History Following payment history and how much debt you carry, the third most influential factor in your credit score is the length of your credit history. This comprises 15% of your FICOÂ® Score, and a longer credit history is better for scores. The age of your oldest account is factored in, and depending on the type of credit scoring model, it may also look at the age of your newest account and the average age of all of your accounts. Accounts closed in good standing can remain on your credit report and continue to benefit it for up to 10 years. Just be aware that closing a credit card account means you have less available credit, which can cause an increase to your overall credit utilization ratio and potentially hurt your score. New Credit and Credit Mix Just as closing a long-standing account can ding your credit, so can applying for or
