---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/preventing-fraud/victim-assistance/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:09.419725+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
the FBI's Internet Crime Complaint Center (IC3). - Your state's motor vehicles department: If your driver's license is lost or stolen, report it immediately to your state motor vehicles department. A driver's license can be used to get other personal credentials such as a birth certificate or Social Security Card. - The U.S. State Department: If your passport is lost or stolen, criminals could use it to steal your identity. Contact the U.S. State Department passport agency right away. - The U.S. Postal Service: If identity theft was committed through postal mail, file a report with the Postal Inspection Service as soon as possible. - Learn more: How to Report Identity Theft 3. Place a Fraud Alert or Security Freeze You have the right to place a fraud alert or security freeze on your credit file. Both help protect you from potential future fraud, but they do so in different ways. Both services are free. A fraud alert instructs lenders and credit issuers to verify your identity before processing credit applications made in your name. - A security freeze limits access to your credit report by potential new creditors and others legally permitted to review your credit. - Fraud Alerts There are three types of fraud alerts: An initial fraud alert can be placed at any time, even if you are not a victim or identity theft, at the Experian Fraud Alert Center. An initial fraud alert stays on your credit file for one year unless you remove it sooner; it can be renewed indefinitely. - An extended fraud alert can only be used by victims of identity theft or other credit fraud. Sometimes called a fraud victim statement, it remains on your credit report for seven years. To set an extended fraud alert, you must provide a copy of an identity theft report you've filed with a law enforcement agency. - An active-duty alert is available to U.S. service members on assignment away from home. Like an initial fraud alert, it lasts one year but can be renewed or removed before it expires. - You can remove any fraud alert before its expiration date by returning to the Experian Fraud Alert Center. Tip: Placing a fraud alert at any one of the three national credit bureaus automatically triggers one at the other two. However, you must contact each bureau separately to remove a fraud alert. Security Freezes A security freeze (also known as a credit freeze) limits access to your credit file by lenders and others legally allowed to view your report. If an identity thief applies for credit in your name while a security freeze is in place, the lender can't view your credit file to process the application. In addition to preventing unauthorized credit checks, security freezes may also prevent authorized ones. If you plan to apply for credit, you can unfreeze your credit either temporarily or permanently to allow creditors to view your credit report. You must contact each credit bureau separately to place or lift a security freeze. Experian | TransUnion | Equifax | ---|---|---| Experian Security Freeze | TransUnion | Online Equifax Information Services LLC | Learn more: Fraud Alert vs. Credit Freeze: What's the Difference? 4. Dispute Inaccurate Information If identity theft has affected your credit report, disputing erroneous information is your next step. Because your credit report is the basis for your credit score, inaccurate information could hurt your credit. You have the right to dispute the items on your credit report online, by mail or over the phone with each of the national credit bureaus. The information will be investigated and verified, updated or deleted from your report depending on the results. Each credit bureau has its own procedure for filing a dispute. If the same inaccuracy appears on multiple credit reports, you must submit disputes to each bureau separately. Experian
