---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/enforcement/competition-matters/2026/01/new-hsr-thresholds-filing-fees-2026
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:54:23.835354+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 09 Feb 2026 07:54:20 GMT
---
or more | Rule 3: Notification thresholds for subsequent purchases adjust yearly, too. The HSR Rules contain additional notification thresholds that, in certain circumstances, relieve parties of the burden of making another filing every time additional voting shares of the same person are acquired. So, when HSR notification is filed, the acquiring person has one year from the end of the waiting period to cross the threshold stated in its HSR filing. Under Section 802.21, you must cross the threshold stated in the filing within one year after the end or termination of the waiting period, or you will have to file a new HSR notification in order to cross that threshold. Section 802.21 also specifies that once the filed-for waiting period ends or terminates, you can acquire up to the next threshold over the next five years without filing again. Here’s how this works. If you file on January 28, 2026, for a $135 million voting securities acquisition that will close after February 17, 2026, you should file to cross the $133.9 million threshold because that is the “$50 million (as adjusted)” threshold in effect at the time of closing (See Rule 1) and pay a $30,000 fee, the filing fee in effect at the time you file. You then have one year from the end of the waiting period to cross the $133.9 million threshold, even though the “$50 million (as adjusted)” threshold may be higher next year when the thresholds adjust again. The next relevant threshold is the “$100 million (as adjusted)” threshold (so called because it started as $100 million and is now adjusted annually). So, after the end of the waiting period for the filing to cross the $133.9 million threshold, you then have five years to acquire up to the next notification threshold—in this case, the “$100 million (as adjusted) threshold”—without an additional HSR filing. In each subsequent year of the five-year period under Section 802.21, that threshold will adjust and you always look to the revised threshold in effect at the time. The revised “$100 million (as adjusted)” threshold for 2026 will be $267.8 million, but in 2027, it may be higher and you would look to the 2027 figure for evaluating additional acquisitions at that time. As always, contact the PNO with specific questions regarding the HSR rules.
