---
source_url: https://www.usa.gov/agency-index
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:27.856598+00:00
last_updated: Sat, 07 Feb 2026 01:13:46 GMT
---
A-Z index of U.S. government departments and agencies Get contact information for U.S. federal government agencies, departments, corporations, instrumentalities, and government-sponsored enterprises. Find websites, email, phone numbers, addresses, and more. A The AbilityOne Commission creates job opportunities for people who are blind or have other significant disabilities in the manufacture and delivery of products and services to the Federal Government. Website: Phone number: 1-703-603-2100 The Access Board is an independent federal agency devoted to accessibility for people with disabilities. The Board develops and maintains design criteria for the built environment, transit vehicles, telecommunications equipment, and for electronic and information technology. Website: Phone number: 1-202-272-0080 Contact: The Administration for Children and Families (ACF) funds state, territory, local, and tribal organizations to provide family assistance (welfare), child support, child care, Head Start, child welfare, and other programs relating to children and families. Find an office near you: The Administration for Community Living (ACL) supports the needs of the aging and disability populations, and improves access health care and long-term services. Website: Phone number: 1-202-401-4634 The Administration for Native Americans (ANA) promotes self-sufficiency and cultural preservation for Native Americans by providing social and economic development opportunities through financial assistance, training, and technical assistance. Website: The Administrative Conference of the United States (ACUS) is an independent federal agency dedicated to improving federal agency administrative processes and procedures. Phone number: 1-202-480-2080 The Administrative Office of the United States Courts handles the nonjudicial, administrative business of the United States Courts such as maintaining statistics and managing Court budgets. Phone number: 1-202-502-2600 Find an office near you: The Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP) encourages the preservation of historic properties across the nation. Phone number: 1-202-517-0200 The U.S. Africa Command strengthens the defense capabilities of African nations. Website: Phone number: 1-314-430-1110 Contact: The African Development Foundation (USADF) provides grants to community groups and small enterprises that benefit under-served and marginalized groups in Africa. Website: The U.S. Agency for Global Media, formerly known as the Broadcasting Board of Governors, broadcasts news and information about the United States and the world to audiences abroad. Website: Phone number: 1-202-920-2000 The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) supports research to improve the quality, safety, efficiency, and effectiveness of health care for all Americans. Phone number: 1-301-427-1104 Find an office near you: The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) is the principal U.S. agency to extend assistance to countries recovering from disaster, trying to escape poverty, and engaging in democratic reforms. Phone number: 1-202-712-4300 Find an office near you: The Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) responds to, and protects people from harmful chemical exposures. Find an office near you: The Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) supports the fair marketing of U.S. agricultural products. Website: Phone number: 1-202-720-8998 Find an office near you: The Agricultural Research Service (ARS) works to find solutions to agricultural problems. Website: Find an office near you: The Department of Agriculture (USDA) provides leadership on food, agriculture, natural resources, and related issues. Website: Find an office near you: The National Agricultural Library (NAL) is the main source of information and research on agriculture. Website: Phone number: 1-301-504-5755 The Air Force defends the United States in the air and space. Website: Phone number: 1-703-697-3039 Contact: Find an office near you: The Air Force Reserve Command performs missions and supports Air Force operations. Website: Phone number: 1-478-327-1748 (public affairs) The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) collects taxes and enforces regulations on alcohol, tobacco, firearms, and ammunition. Find an office near you: The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) enforces federal criminal laws regulating the firearms and explosives industries. Phone number: 1-202-648-7777 (for criminal intelligence/law enforcement matters only) The Middle East Broadcasting Network operates Alhurra TV. Alhurra TV provide news to the people of the Middle East about the region, the world, and the
