---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-life-insurance-companies-8763666
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:17.041413+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Beach, California, Pacific Life was founded in 1868. Policy Types & Riders Available Policy Types Term lifeUniversal lifeIndex universal lifeVariable universal lifeNo-medical-exam life Available Riders Term conversionChild termWaiver of premiumDisability incomeTerminal illnessLong-term careChronic illness Best Whole Life Insurance : Lafayette Life Lafayette Life Insurance Financial Strength Rating: A+Complaints: Much better than expected for company size Get a Quote (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It Lafayette Life outscored rivals in the whole life department thanks to its broad range of whole life policies and riders (many included at no cost), and its high coverage limits. You can buy as large a policy as you want (provided you can qualify based on your income). Pros & Cons Pros Offers seven whole life insurance policies No caps on whole life coverage Pays whole life dividends Policies come with three free living benefit riders Cons Other top competitors pay better dividend rates Doesn’t offer universal or variable life insurance Overview With seven different whole life policies, Lafayette Life offers options to suit a variety of needs. There’s no limit on how large the death benefit can be, and we appreciate that Lafayette offers a lot of free riders, including those that allow you to use your coverage while you’re alive if you develop a serious illness. On the downside, Lafayette’s dividend rate is lower than that of competitors such as MassMutual and Guardian Life. You’ll also need to call the company or meet an agent in person to apply; there’s no online application. Founded in 1905, Lafayette Life is headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio. Policy Types & Riders Available Policy Types Term lifeWhole lifeChildren’s whole lifeNo-medical-exam life (whole life)Final expense Available Riders Term conversionChild termGuaranteed insurability riderWaiver of premiumAccidental death benefitTerminal illnessChronic illnessCritical illness Also Great for Whole Life Insurance : MassMutual MassMutual Financial Strength Rating: A++Complaints: Much better than expected for company size Get a Quote (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It MassMutual pays the highest whole life dividend rate to policyholders of the companies Investopedia researched. That means cash value grows faster than with whole life policies at competing insurers. Pros & Cons Pros Whole life policies have paid generous dividends People up to 90 years old can apply for whole life Complaints about the company are extremely rare, given its size Cons You can’t get a quote or apply for a policy online No same-day decisions All policy applications require a medical exam Overview MassMutual scored slightly lower than Lafayette for our best whole life insurance list, but it was a close call. MassMutual beats Lafayette on a couple of fronts. Its dividend rate is the highest of all insurers on this list at 6.40%, and it offers whole life policies to people up to age 90. Only Thrivent and Guardian Life have age limits that are that high. On the downside, you have to talk to an agent and take a medical exam to buy a MassMutual policy, and there are no same-day decisions. MassMutual has called Springfield, Massachusetts, home since its founding in 1851. Policy Types & Riders Available Policy Types Term lifeWhole lifeChildren’s whole lifeUniversal lifeVariable universal life Available Riders Term conversionSpouse riderGuaranteed insurability riderWaiver of premiumDisability incomeTerminal illnessChronic illness Best No-Medical-Exam Insurance : Penn Mutual Penn Mutual Financial Strength Rating: A+Complaints: Much better than expected for company size Get a Quote (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It If you want a substantial life insurance policy and don’t want to take a medical exam when you apply, Penn Mutual is the best provider. Its no-medical-exam policies can run up to $10 million—the highest amount we found in our research. Pros & Cons Pros Large policies available without a medical exam High dividend rate for whole life policies Great customer complaint record Cons Doesn’t offer final expense insurance No online application
