---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-debt-relief-companies-8763179
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:00.590678+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
plan: $65 for individuals or $85 for couples; includes a deep dive into your credit and development of a plan to improve it over time.Financial coaching: A one-time fee of $300 for financial goal setting, action plan, on-demand access to a counselor, and other financial tools.Financial health plan: $95 for a personalized financial plan covering your budget, debts, credit, savings, and goals.Bankruptcy counseling: $25 for an online pre-bankruptcy counseling course; $50 for an in-person post-bankruptcy workshop.Pre-purchase mortgage counseling: Up to $90 for advice on getting ready to take out a mortgage, as required by some lenders. In addition to the paid counseling options above, Apprisen offers free counseling for the following situations and needs: First-time renterFirst-time homebuyerMortgage delinquency/foreclosure preventionStudent loan counseling Best for Tax Relief : Precision Tax Relief Investopedia's Rating 4.8 out of 5 stars Precision Tax Relief Service: Tax reliefFee: Flat feeMinimum debt required: $0 Learn More (opens in a new tab) Pros & Cons Pros 30-day money-back guarantee Flat-rate fee provided upfront In business since 1967 Cons No tax audit representation Limited online resources Why We Chose It We researched tax relief companies separately from other debt relief companies, and found Precision Tax Relief to be the best option for people struggling with tax debt. Anyone nationwide with any amount of tax debt—federal or state, personal or business—is welcome to apply. Precision employs attorneys, enrolled agents, and CPAs who will look at your situation, explain your options, and help you figure out the best way forward. The company is accredited by the American Society of Tax Problem Solvers (ASTPS), the National Association of Enrolled Agents (NAEA), and the American Institute of CPAs (AICPA). You can access a range of services from Precision, like help making offers-in-compromise to the IRS, setting up long-term installment plans, or dealing with wage garnishment. You’ll also find innocent spouse relief and tax lien assistance, but no tax audit representation. Precision Tax Relief was founded in 1967 and has headquarters in Coeur d’Alene, Idaho. Fees and Costs Precision Tax Relief offers a free initial consultation. If the service could be of some use, you’ll be given a quote for the full price, so there’ll be no surprises. You’ll be charged a specific flat fee rather than a range or estimate, which can be paid in a lump sum or in installments. Why You Should Trust Us Investopedia was founded in 1999 and has provided original recommendations on the best debt relief companies since June 2020. Investopedia’s research and editorial teams collected over 1,500 data points on debt relief companies (including debt settlement and credit counseling services) to develop comprehensive, unbiased recommendations that serve people in a variety of circumstances. Warning The Federal Trade Commission publishes a list of companies and people banned from participating in the debt relief business. Given how common debt relief scams and unrealistic promises to solve debt problems are, it's worth checking this list before working with a debt relief company of any kind. How Does Debt Relief Work? There are many forms of debt relief, including debt settlement companies that work with creditors on your behalf to pay off your debts for less than what you owe. The fee for their services is usually a percentage of your settled debt. For example, if the fee is 15% and your settled debt is $2,000, your cost would be $300. Some companies might base their fees on your initial debt. However, your debt relif costs are not limited to that fee. You'll need to establish a savings account from which your debts will be paid off, and you will be responsible for the setup fee and any other fees associated with that account. The debt relief company will use the funds you add to that savings account to pay off your creditors. Debt settlement companies cannot charge you any fees
