---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/help/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:54.805436+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 21:35:42 GMT
---
below so you can get your account reconnected as soon as possible. This process is virtually the same as when you initially signed up for Experian Boost or Personal Finances and should only take a few minutes. How to reconnect, step by step: Sign inÂ to your Experian account. - Tap âReconnect nowâ on the banner that appears below the bank that's disconnected. - Reconnect your account by logging in with your bank credentials. - Head to your Experian Boost and/or Personal Finances dashboards and make sure the account is connected. - Why do I have to reconnect my bank account? As Experian continues to work with our partners to provide the highest level of security and data privacy possible, we're always optimizing our systems to ensure the safety of your personal information. As part of this process, your bank connection to Experian Boost and/or Personal Finances may be disconnectedâif it hasn't been alreadyâso that you can reauthorize your bank credentials with an updated and even more secure method of connection. What happens when my bank account gets disconnected? When your bank is disconnected from Experian Boost, Experian no longer receives a record of your payment history. This could result in losing any FICOÂ®Â Score point increases you've received so far from Experian Boost. As time goes on, your bills are at risk of being removed if the information stored by Experian Boost isn't updated with new data for three months in a row. If you're using Experian's Personal Finances tool and your bank account remains disconnected, you'll also stop receiving personalized insights based on your transaction and spending history in that account. To avoid the hassle, simply reconnect your account by logging in with your bank credentials. Once you do, your payment history will be loaded into Experian Boost and/or Personal Finances. Any payment information not received by Experian Boost during the period you were disconnected will be updated. The Debt Bondage Repair Act prohibits credit reporting companies from providing credit reports that contain any negative item of information about a survivor of trafficking that resulted from the trafficking. Block items on credit reportTake action with these tools Learn how to take control of your credit Which Credit Score Is Most Important? 6 min â¢ Dec 10, 2025 Credit AdviceHow to Dispute Credit Report Information 8 min â¢ Dec 11, 2025 DisputeHow to Freeze Your Credit at All 3 Credit Bureaus 7 min â¢ Sep 22, 2025 Security FreezeHow to Build Credit: A Comprehensive Guide 13 min â¢ Oct 28, 2025 Improve CreditHow Does Credit Work? 2 min â¢ Jun 27, 2024 Report AdviceHow to Get a Free Credit Report After Being Declined 3 min â¢ Oct 12, 2023 Denied Credit
