---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/help/fraud-alert/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:06.889741+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 21:35:42 GMT
---
you make regarding a new loan, credit, mortgage, or any other account involving the extension of credit. As an alternative to a security freeze, you have the right to place an initial or extended fraud alert on your credit file at no cost. An initial fraud alert is a 1-year alert that is placed on a consumerâs credit file. Upon seeing a fraud alert display on a consumerâs credit file, a business is required to take steps to verify the consumerâs identity before extending new credit. If you are a victim of identity theft, you are entitled to an extended fraud alert, which is a fraud alert lasting 7 years. A security freeze does not apply to a person or entity, or its affiliates, or collection agencies acting on behalf of the person or entity, with which you have an existing account that requests information in your credit report for the purposes of reviewing or collecting the account. Reviewing the account includes activities related to account maintenance, monitoring, credit line increases, and account upgrades and enhancements. To learn more about identity theft and how to deal with its consequences, visitÂ www.consumerfinance.gov/learnmore, or write to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. You may have additional rights under state law. For more information, contact your local consumer protection agency or your state Attorney General. In addition to the new rights and procedures to help consumers deal with the effects of identity theft, the FCRA has many other important consumer protections. They are described in more detail atÂ www.consumerfinance.gov/learnmore.
