---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/report-basics/how-and-when-collections-are-removed-from-a-credit-report/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:49.817397+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:12 GMT
---
successful, may be able to garnish your wages or bank account. - Learn more: How Does Debt Collection Work? What Debt Can Be Sent to Collections? Unpaid debts that can go into collections include all consumer debts normally tracked on your credit reports (such as student loans, car loans, mortgages and credit cards) and many other financial obligations, if you fail to pay them as agreed. These include: Utility bills (cellphone, cable or internet) - Professional services (medical or dental treatment, contractor services and the like) - Government-imposed fines or fees - If you default on a debt secured by collateral such as a car loan or mortgage, the creditor might pursue repossession (in the case of a vehicle) or foreclosure (in the case of real property), then sell the collateral to recover its money. If the sale doesn't recover everything you owe, the outstanding deficiency balance could be sent to collections. Learn more: How to Find Out What Debts You Have in Collections How Long Do Collections Stay on Your Credit Report? A collection account can stay on your credit report for up to seven years from the debt's original delinquency date. That's the first in the series of missed payments that led to the debt being turned over for collection. Example: Let's suppose you miss a loan payment in June, bring the account current in July, and then stop making payments in December. When the account goes to collections in March and subsequently appears on your credit reports, the seven-year countdown to its expiration will start in December, since that missed payment was first in the chain of delinquencies that sent the account into collections. How Collections Impact Your Credit Late payments and collection accounts could hurt your credit scores as long as they appear on your credit report. Their exact impact can depend on what else is in your credit report, the nature and amount of a given collection account, and whether or not you pay the collector the amount they seek. Here's an overview of how collections impact commonly used VantageScoreÂ® credit scores and FICOÂ® ScoresÎ. VantageScore 3.0 and 4.0 | FICOÂ® Score 8, 9 and 10 | ---|---| Ignores all paid collections | Ignores paid and unpaid third-party collections under $100 | Ignores any medical debt included in your credit reports | Ignores medical collections that are under $500 and that are paid or less than one year old | Here's more detail on how each type of collection impacts your credit scores: Paid collections: Under some circumstances, paying a debt collector what you owe them can eliminate a collection's negative impact on your credit. Recent versions of VantageScore and FICOÂ® Score credit scoring models ignore paid collection accounts, but many lenders may still be using older versions of those systems that don't ignore paid collections. - Small collections: The latest versions of the FICOÂ® ScoreâFICOÂ® Scores 8, 9 and 10âignore third-party collections for debts of less than $100, whether they're paid or unpaid. - Medical collections under $500: If paid or less than one year old, medical collections for less than $500 are excluded from your credit reports and do not affect your credit scores. A rule change by the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) would have removed all medical bills from credit reports in March 2025, but implementation has been delayed. Versions 3.0 and 4.0 of the VantageScore credit scoring system ignore any medical debt included in your credit reports. Tip: "Medical collections" refers to unpaid bills sent to collections by a medical facility or health care provider. If you pay a medical bill with a credit card and later default on the credit card account, related collections will not be excluded from your credit reports. - All other collections: Collections that don't fall into the exception categories above will tend to
