---
source_url: https://www.usa.gov/savings-bonds
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:57.665877+00:00
last_updated: Sat, 07 Feb 2026 01:13:54 GMT
---
U.S. savings bonds Learn about the types of U.S. savings bonds, how to buy or redeem them, and calculate their value. Find out how to change a bondâs ownership, replace it, and whether it is taxable. What are savings bonds? By buying a U.S. savings bond, you are lending the government money. When you redeem a bond, the government pays you back the amount you bought the bond for plus interest. Manage electronic savings bonds To buy, redeem, or manage electronic savings bonds, you will need to create or log into your TreasuryDirect account. Buy savings bonds You can buy electronic savings bonds online. Learn how to buy U.S. savings bonds. Determine the value of savings bonds You can determine the value for an electronic savings bond by logging into your TreasuryDirect account. For paper bonds, use the savings bond calculator. Current EE and I series savings bonds The U.S. Department of the Treasury currently sells two types of savings bonds, the EE and I series. Both series have different interest rates, which are either fixed or change with inflation. Learn more about EE bonds and I bonds, including how to: Buy and redeem them - Determine their value - Claim them if the owner has died - Change ownership or beneficiaries - Update personal information or fix errors - Replace them if they are lost, stolen, or destroyed - Report interest on your federal tax return - Older HH and historical savings bonds The U.S. Department of the Treasury no longer issues HH and other historical bond series. But you can still redeem them. HH series savings bonds The last HH series savings bonds the U.S. government issued are still earning interest until 2024. Learn more about HH bonds, including how to: Redeem them - Determine their value - Claim them if the owner has died - Change ownership or beneficiaries - Update personal information or fix errors - Replace them if they are lost, stolen, or destroyed - Report interest on your federal tax return - Historical and retired savings bonds Like HH bonds, you can no longer buy historical and retired savings bonds. Learn more about older savings bonds series and savings securities, and find out: When the U.S. government issued them - If they are still earning interest - How to cash them - What their value is or how to calculate it - If the interest is taxable - Search for missing savings bonds Search for matured savings bonds and missing interest using Treasury Hunt, an online tool from TreasuryDirect. LAST UPDATED: November 13, 2025 Have a question? Ask a real person any government-related question for free. They will get you the answer or let you know where to find it.
