---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/data-research/public-data-inventory/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:25.131154+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Public Data Inventory Looking to submit or follow-up on a consumer complaint? Submit a complaint Questions about data? Email CFPB_OCDO@cfpb.gov Item name | Description | Data type | Frequency | ---|---|---|---| This dashboard provides access to car loan origination, inquiry, risk profile, income level and age profile data. | Raw data | Ongoing | CFPB priority datasets published in the Federal Data Catalog (Data.gov). | Raw data | Ongoing | Search engine for CFPB publications, reports, press releases, and other bureau-specific information. | Various | Ongoing | This site provides an overview of how consumers are interacting with the CFPB consumerfinance.gov websites online. The data comes from a unified Google Analytics account for U.S. federal government agencies, known as the Digital Analytics Program. Note: The program does not track individuals and anonymizes the IP addresses of visitors. | Other | Ongoing | Information about college credit card agreements collected annually pursuant to the CARD Act from credit card issuers who have marketing agreements with universities, colleges, or affiliated organizations such as alumni associations, sororities, fraternities, and foundations. | Documents | Ongoing | Information about college banking partnerships from institutions of higher education (IHEs) that partner with financial service providers, including information about the number of student accountholders at specific IHEs, annual mean and median costs at specific IHEs, sample contracts between IHEs and financial service providers, and sample partnership disclosures provided by IHEs. | Documents, Raw data | One-time | Consumer complaint data, including company responses, submissions through the “tell your story” function on the Bureau website, and inquiries and feedback from consumers. | Documents, Raw data | Ongoing | Aggregated data from multiple sources supporting figures in the CFPB’s biennial report to Congress on the consumer credit card market, as mandated by the CARD Act. | Documents, Raw data | Biennial | This list includes the three nationwide consumer reporting companies as well as other companies that focus on certain market areas and consumer segments. | Documents, Raw Data | Annual | List of electronic payment processors and associated fees used by K-12 Schools in 2023-2024. Data was collected from public sources, including school websites. | Raw Data | One-time | Credit card agreements from more than 300 card issuers. These agreements feature general terms and conditions, pricing, and fee information and are collected pursuant to requirements in the CARD Act. | Documents | Ongoing | This dashboard provides access to credit card origination, inquiry, risk profile, income level and age profile data. | Raw data | Ongoing | This appendix lists the Bureau’s data-sharing Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) between the Bureau and other governmental and quasi-governmental agencies that address the sharing of data. | Documents | Ongoing | See summary data on all the Bureau’s public enforcement actions and ordered consumer relief. | Raw data | Ongoing | Annual Financial Literacy Reports detail CFPB’s financial literacy strategy and activities to improve the financial literacy of consumers. | Documents | Annual | On this page you can find records that are frequently requested, logs of past requests including the results of those requests, quarterly and annual reporting to the Department of Justice. | Documents | Annual | This repository includes open-source code including APIs for specific data resources. | Source Code, API | Ongoing | Publicly-available HMDA data has been modified from the restricted version to protect the privacy of individuals whose information is present in the dataset. | Raw data | Annual | Reports and analyses of mortgage trends using HMDA data. | Documents, Raw data | Annual | Data Inventory product of the Data Committee of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC), collected by FSOC member organizations. The inventory contains metadata about each data collection. | Metadata | Annual | The Making Ends Meet Survey program is a series of general financial surveys that examine consumers’ evolving
