---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/mortgage-rates-5094943
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:58.666237+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
put you in a bad light, ask that they be corrected before you apply. If your credit score is in need of improvement, consider delaying your application for a few months while you work to raise it. Check your debt-to-income (DTI) ratio. A metric commonly used by lenders, DTI compares your monthly credit obligations to your monthly income. Mortgage lenders generally want to see a DTI of 43% or less to make sure you aren't getting in too deep. Consider a larger down payment of you can afford it. That reduces the lender's risk, so they'll often offer you a lower interest rate in return. Know that mortgage rates can be negotiable, especially in a competitive market. It never hurts to ask for a lower rate or some other financial concession from the lender. Tip According to research by Freddie Mac, mortgage borrowers who shopped around for the best rate saved significant sums of money on interest and fees compared to those who did not. Specifically, those who received two quotes saved an average of $600, and those who received four or more quotes saved an average of $1,200 on the mortgage cost. Similar research by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia showed that borrowers who shopped around saved an average of 18 basis points on their mortgage loan rate. How Do I Qualify for Better Mortgage Rates? To recap some of the tips in the previous section: Shop around.Consider as large a down payment as you can afford.Know where you stand in terms of creditworthiness.Correct any damaging errors in your credit report.Take time to improve your credit score if necessary.Same for your DTI ratio.Ask for a better rate—you might just get it. How to Apply for a Mortgage You can apply for a mortgage in person or online. Generally, a mortgage application will ask for information about both you and the property you're buying. That's likely to include: Basic personal information:Your current address, marital status, and any dependentsYour Social Security number and date of birthWhether you're applying as an individual or jointly, such as with a spouse or other co-borrowerWhere you currently work and how much you earn thereDetails on your personal finances:Your financial assets, such as bank and investment accounts and any other real estate you ownHow much you currently owe on other loans, such as car, student, or personal loans, and any outstanding credit card balancesDescription of the property you're planning to buy:Where it's located and what kind of property it is (single family house, condo, etc.)The asking price or price you've already negotiated and how much you wish to borrowWhether you intend to live there or use it as an income-producing rental property How to Refinance Your Mortgage Refinancing a home—taking out a new mortgage to pay off and replace your old one—may be a bit easier, since you've been through the mortgage process before. But again you'll want to shop around, compare costs, and not assume that refinancing with your current lender is necessarily the best option. Here's the basic process: First, determine if refinancing makes sense: That will depend to a large extent on whether you can get a significantly lower interest rate than you now have or if you can get a shorter-term mortgage for the amount you're currently paying each month. Bear in mind that refinancing has its own set of closing cost and other fees. Check your credit: Just like the first time you got a mortgage, it pays to check your credit reports and credit score before you apply, correct any errors, and try to improve your score if necessary. Unless you've run into financial difficulties since you bought your home, you're likely to be a better risk now from the lender's perspective, since you'll have a substantial record of timely monthly payments on your record. Plus you've built up
