---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-use-a-credit-card/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:29.258255+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:52 GMT
---
Score, and a longer credit history is better for scores. The age of your oldest account is factored in, and depending on the type of credit scoring model, it may also look at the age of your newest account and the average age of all of your accounts. Accounts closed in good standing can remain on your credit report and continue to benefit it for up to 10 years. Just be aware that closing a credit card account means you have less available credit, which can cause an increase to your overall credit utilization ratio and potentially hurt your score. New Credit and Credit Mix Just as closing a long-standing account can ding your credit, so can applying for or opening too many new cards at once. A hard inquiry is run every time you apply for a credit card account, which may temporarily hurt your credit. Too many inquiries and accounts can indicate increased risk, which can hurt your scores. New credit accounts and inquiries account for 10% of your FICOÂ® Score. The different types of credit accounts you have also plays a small role in your score. Your "credit mix" accounts for 10% of your credit score and shows how you manage different types of credit accounts, including revolving accounts like credit cards as well as installment accounts, which include car loans, mortgages and student loans. Track Your Progress As you become a more experienced and savvy credit card user, your credit score may rise, opening up new opportunities. To track your score's progress over time, sign up for free credit monitoring with Experian. You'll be able to see how your behaviors impact your score for better or for worse, and you'll be able to catch fraud or identity theft much faster. Donât apply blindly Apply for credit cards confidently with personalized offers based on your credit profile. Get started with your FICOÂ® Score for free. See your offersAbout the author Emily Starbuck Gerson is a freelance writer who specializes in personal finance, small business, LGBTQ and travel topics. Sheâs been a journalist for over a decade and has worked as a staff writer at CreditCards.com and NerdWallet. Emilyâs work has appeared in CNBC, MarketWatch, Business Insider, USA Today, The Christian Science Monitor and the Chicago Tribute, among other websites and publications. Read more from Emily Starbuck
