---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/best-ways-to-redeem-credit-card-rewards/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:36.587621+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:58 GMT
---
need to meet minimum redemption requirements, gift cards are usually available for 1 cent per point, and sometimes you can redeem fewer points for selecting certain gift cards. For example, if a $25 gift card usually costs 2,500 points, there may be offers that only require 2,000 points. Think Twice Before Redeeming Rewards for These Options Cash back and travel tend to be the best redemption options, but you might be tempted by some of the alternatives, such as exchanging your rewards for merchandise or using them to shop online. But often, these aren't great options. You often receive less than 1 cent per pointâsometimes just half as muchâusing other alternatives. You also can't take advantage of other savings or bonus reward-earning opportunities, such as getting bonus rewards by shopping online via a shopping portal. You can also often donate your rewards to charity. However, you might not be able to claim a tax deduction for the donation because the card issuer or loyalty program is donating your rewards on your behalf. A better option could be to get cash back (if it's at a good value) or a gift card and then give the equivalent amount directly to the charity. The Bottom Line Earning rewards on purchases you were going to make anyway is one of the many ways using a credit card can be beneficial. But you also want to make sure you're getting a great value when you redeem your rewards. Compare the options and requirements to see which will give you the most value on redemptions. If you want to be sure you're maximizing your earnings, you can also compare current card offers with features from Experian and get specific recommendations based on your credit score. Get the rewards you deserve Cash back? Miles? Points? Whatever suits your goals, we can help match you to personalized rewards card offers. Start with your FICOÂ® Score for free. See your offersAbout the author Louis DeNicola is freelance personal finance and credit writer who works with Fortune 500 financial services firms, FinTech startups, and non-profits to teach people about money and credit. His clients include BlueVine, Discover, LendingTree, Money Management International, U.S News and Wirecutter. Read more from Louis
