---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-identity-theft/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:27.402047+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:23 GMT
---
so they can take extra measures to verify your identity when they get an application for credit in your name. - Protect your child's identity. If you suspect your child is a victim of identity theft, you can check if your child has a credit report. Then you can consider adding a fraud alert or security freeze to protect them. - Being a victim of identity theft is a harrowing experience. It can take months and many hours of filling out forms and working with agencies and businesses to recover your identity once it is stolen. As such, it's important to be alert and to respond promptly when you believe identity theft has occurred. How to Protect Yourself from Identity Theft Remember, there's no surefire way to prevent all forms of identity theft completely, but there are some steps you can take to make it harder for criminals to access your information and use it for nefarious purposes. Here are some tips on how to protect yourself from identity theft. Safeguard Your Devices Use a non-generic passcode and biometric authorization, such as fingerprint or facial recognition software, to secure your mobile devices and computers. Also, be sure to routinely check for and install regular software updates to your devices. Updates include software patches designed to close up weak points in security, so putting off updates can leave you vulnerable. Use a Password Manager These days it's not uncommon for people to have online accounts with hundreds of different websites. A password manager not only makes it so you don't have to remember individual passwords but also ensures that your login credentials for each account are strong and unique. Protect Personal Documents If possible, opt for electronic statements instead of paper statements on all of your accounts so you don't risk leaving sensitive information in your mailbox. Also, be sure to check your mail daily instead of leaving it exposed for days, and shred any documents that contain personal details once you no longer need them. Watch Out for Phishing Scams If you receive an email or text message saying you owe money, telling you to open an attachment or asking for personal information, be skeptical. Check the sender's email address and the URL, and do not click any links in the message. If you think the message may be legitimate, contact the company separately using contact information on a bill or the company's website. Don't Share Information Over the Phone If someone calls you and asks for personal or financial information, it could be a sure sign of fraud. Before providing any details, ask the caller for a callback number, then search for it online to see if it matches the customer service number of the company supposedly calling you. Keep in mind, the IRS and other government authorities will not call you and ask for your personal information over the phone. Check Your Credit Reports Regularly With Experian's free credit monitoring service, you can get real-time alerts when changes are made to your Experian credit report. You'll also get free access to check your FICOÂ® ScoreÎ and Experian credit report anytime, making it easier to watch out for unfamiliar activity. Be Vigilant When Online When using public Wi-Fi networks, consider using a virtual private network (VPN) to keep your internet connection private and secure. Also, if you're visiting a website, check the URL to see if it's secureâthe URL should start with HTTPS. Even if it's secure, though, research websites you don't recognize to find out if they're legitimate. Consider Identity Theft Protection Services If you want an extra level of protection against identity theft, consider signing up for an identity theft protection service. These services can add an extra level of protection and help you spot possible signs of identity theft early. Experian's identity theft protection service offers
