---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/pros-and-cons-of-debt-consolidation/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:32.938488+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:58 GMT
---
to qualify for a new credit account that will actually help you. With Experian, you can get free access to your credit report and FICOÂ® ScoreÎ to see where you stand. Then, look for preapproved credit offers from lenders and credit card issuers to understand the terms and limits you can qualify for without a hard credit check. - Learn more: Debt Consolidation Mistakes to Avoid Compare personal loan rates Find APRs from 4.99% to 35.99% and flexible terms of 12 to 120 months. Loan amounts range from $1,000 up to $250,000, with funding available the same day or up to 7 days. Offers from our partners View all of our Best Personal Loans for 2026 to see what youâre likely to qualify for, and the rates and terms you might get. How to Choose a Debt Consolidation Option For the most part, the best options to consider include debt consolidation loans and balance transfer credit cards. Understand the differences to learn which method may work better for you. When to Choose a Balance Transfer Card | When to Choose a Debt Consolidation Loan | ---|---| | | Comparing Debt Consolidation Options Example To see how you can compare the costs of individual debt consolidation options, consider the following example. Let's assume you have three credit cards with a total balance of $7,000 that you want to pay off. There is a 5% personal loan origination fee and 5% balance transfer fee. Given those numbers, here's how your monthly payment, total interest paid and time to pay off debt compares for different debt consolidation options. APR | Monthly Payment | Total Interest Paid | Time to Payoff | ---|---|---|---| Paying three cards (no consolidation) | 24% | Minimum only | $13,332.12 | 319 months | ---|---|---|---|---| Personal loan | 10% | $339 | $790 | 24 months | ---|---|---|---|---| Balance transfer card | 0% for 21 months | $347 | $0 | 21 months | ---|---|---|---|---| From the example above, you can see that a balance transfer card with a 0% intro APR for 21 months saves you the most money. You won't pay any interest and will pay off your debt in less than two years. Tip: While a balance transfer card can certainly save you money if used well, it's essential that you go in with a plan for how you'll pay off your balance before the promotional APR period ends. Otherwise, you could face steep interest charges on your remaining balance. How to Consolidate Debt Once you've decided which debt consolidation option is the best for you, follow these steps to consolidate your debt. Debt Consolidation Loan Shop around. Take some time to research and compare debt consolidation loans to understand your options and loan terms. Many lenders offer prequalification, which allows you to get rate quotes without negatively impacting your credit score. In addition to interest rates, it's a good idea to compare origination fees, repayment terms and whether the lender offers to pay off your loans directly. - Submit an application. Once you find the right fit, you can typically submit an application online through the lender's website. You'll usually need to provide some basic information about yourself, including your name, Social Security number, date of birth, address, contact information, employment and income details and what you're looking for in terms of the loan amount and term. - Review the loan terms. Lenders may be able to underwrite and approve your loan application within minutes or even seconds after you submit it. If you're approved, carefully review the loan agreement to make sure the terms work in your favor. If you like what you see, you can typically sign the contract electronically. - Pay off your debt. If the lender you choose offers direct pay, you'll likely need to provide details about the debts you
