---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/can-i-get-a-balance-transfer-card-with-bad-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:31.973179+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:59 GMT
---
on increasing your income, by asking for a raise, selling items or starting a side business, can jump-start your debt payoff plans. - Reduce your monthly expenses. You can also cut the amount you pay on recurring expenses like housing, transportation, utilities, memberships and subscriptions and meals out, then send the extra cash to debt payoff. - Work with a nonprofit credit counseling agency. These organizations can offer a free initial consultation on your debt situation and suggest payoff strategies. Search for a certified credit counselor through the National Foundation for Credit Counseling when you're ready to get started. - The Bottom Line With bad credit, it will be a challenge to get a traditional balance transfer credit card. But you have other options. A secured credit card with a balance transfer deal, for example, can get you a lower rate when paying off an existing balanceâand help you improve your credit score at the same time. You may decide to pay off debt without a balance transfer at all. But however you do it, eliminating debt will help you not only achieve debt freedom, but will likely move your credit score into a category that gives you more flexibility too. Best balance transfer cards Need to consolidate debt and save on interest? See if you qualify for intro offers like 0% intro APR up to 21 months based on your FICOÂ® Score. See your offersAbout the author Brianna McGurran is a freelance journalist and writing teacher based in Brooklyn, New York. Most recently, she was a staff writer and spokesperson at the personal finance website NerdWallet, where she wrote "Ask Brianna," a financial advice column syndicated by the Associated Press. Read more from Brianna
