---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-robo-advisors-8764849
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:51.464816+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation. Best Robo-Advisors for February 2026 By Katie Reilly Full Bio Katie Reilly is a former Editor of Trading and Investing at Investopedia. She has a decade of experience in journalism, previously covering national news and education issues. She earned her bachelor's degree in English and political science from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where she also minored in business journalism. Learn about our editorial policies Updated January 30, 2026 Fact checked by Michael Sacchitello Fact checked by Michael Sacchitello Full Bio Michael is a former senior editor of investing and trading products for Investopedia. He has 20+ years of mutual fund, macro market research, institutional trading desk, and trading education experience. Michael holds a bachelor's degree from West Virginia University and is a chartered member and subject matter expert (SME) for the industry-leading Chartered Market Technicians (CMT) Association. Learn about our editorial policies Best Robo-Advisors for February 2026 View All Best Robo-Advisors for February 2026 Top Picks Wealthfront Betterment Fidelity Go See More (5) SoFi Automated Investing M1 Finance Acorns E*TRADE Core Portfolios Merrill Guided Investing Why Trust Us How Do Robo-Advisors Work? Who Are Robo-Advisors Best For? Common Terms Pros & Cons Methodology A robo-advisor is an automated investment service that applies algorithmic investing strategies to an investor's portfolio. This automated approach takes the emotion out of investing. That prevents investors from committing self-inflicted errors such as overreacting during periods of high volatility in the market, like we are experiencing in 2026. The best robo-advisors make it easy to set up an investment plan, provide robust rebalancing and tax-loss harvesting features, offer a wide range of pre-built portfolios, and more to help investors reach their long-term goals. After careful analysis, Investopedia’s in-house research and editorial staff determined that Wealthfront is the best overall robo-advisor thanks to key features that include stock investing, low-interest rate borrowing, and dynamic tax-loss harvesting. Investopedia researched 20 digital wealth management platforms and evaluated them on 59 criteria, including cost, account services, and goal-planning tools. This report highlights the best robo-advisors. It aims to help you decide which one is the right fit for you and your investing approach. Best Robo-Advisors for February 2026 Best Overall, Best for Goal Planning, Best for Portfolio Construction, Best for Portfolio Management: Wealthfront Best for Beginners, Best for Cash Management, Best for Tax-Loss Harvesting: Betterment Best for Low Costs: Fidelity Go Best for Access to Licensed Financial Advisors: SoFi Automated Investing Best for Sophisticated Investors, Best for Cryptocurrency Portfolio Selection: M1 Finance Best for Those Who Struggle to Save: Acorns Best for Mobile: E*TRADE Core Portfolios Best for Education: Merrill Guided Investing Best Overall, Best for Goal Planning, Best for Portfolio Construction, Best for Portfolio Management : Wealthfront Investopedia's Rating 4.9 out of 5 stars Wealthfront Account Minimum: $500Fees: 0.25% for most accounts; no trading commission or fees for withdrawals, minimums, or transfers Learn More (opens in a new tab) Tip When you open and fund a Wealthfront Cash Account as a first-time client, you can boost your 3.30% variable base APY to an even higher 3.95%, for a limited time, provided through program banks. Get started today. Terms & Conditions apply. Why We Chose It Best Overall Wealthfront is the best overall robo-advisor. It offers investment and money management products that meet the needs of any type of investor. The platform has low fees and a low required minimum investment of $500. It offers individual stock investing, high-yield cash, digital financial planning, automated tax-loss harvesting, and lending capabilities. Best for Portfolio Management Wealthfront makes it easy for investors to manage their portfolios, enabling them to link multiple investment accounts for an overview and analysis of their finances. The platform also offers a digital financial planner, known as
