---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
an extended fraud alert; (iv) allows a consumer to request an active duty fraud alert; (v) allows a consumer to opt-out of the use of information in a consumer report to send the consumer a solicitation of credit or insurance, in accordance with section 615(d); and (vi) shall not be the only mechanism by which a consumer may request a security freeze. (B) FTC. The Federal Trade Commission sh all establish a single webpage that includes a link to each webpage established under subparagraph (A) within the Federal Trade Commission’s website www.IdentityTheft.gov, or a successor website. (j) National protection for files and credit records of protected consumers. (1) Definitions. As used in this subsection: (A) The term ‘consumer reporting agency’ means a consumer reporting agency described in section 603(p). (B) The term ‘protected consumer’ means an individual who is – § 605A - 15 U.S.C. § 1681c-1 35 (i) under the age of 16 years at the time a request for the placement of a security freeze is made; or (ii) an incapacitated person or a protected person for whom a guardian or conservator has been appointed. (C) The term ‘protected consumer’s representative’ means a person who provides to a consumer reporting agency sufficient proof of authority to act on behalf of a protected consumer. (D) The term ‘record’ means a compilation of information that – (i) identifies a protected consumer; (ii) is created by a consumer reporting agency solely for the purpose of complying with this subsection; and (iii) may not be created or used to consider the protected consumer’s credit worthiness, credit standing, credit capacity, character, general reputation, personal characteristics, or mode of living. (E) The term ‘security freeze’ means a restriction that prohibits a consumer reporting agency from disclosing the contents of a consumer report that is the subject of such security freeze or, in the case of a protected consumer for whom the consumer reporting agency does not have a file, a record that is subject to such security freeze to any person requesting the consumer report for the purpose of opening a new account involving the extension of credit. (F) The term ‘sufficient proof of authority’ means documentation that shows a protected consumer’s representative has authority to act on behalf of a protected consumer and includes – (i) an order issued by a court of law; (ii) a lawfully executed and valid power of attorney; (iii) a document issued by a Federal, State, or local government agency in the United States showing proof of parentage, including a birth certificate; or (iv) with respect to a protected consumer who has been placed in a foster care setting, a written communication from a county welfare department or its agent or designee, or a county probation department or its agent or designee, certifying that the protected consumer is in a foster care setting under its jurisdiction. 36§ 605A - 15 U.S.C. § 1681c-1 (G) The term ‘sufficient proof of identification’ means information or documentation that identifies a protected consumer and a protected consumer’s representative and includes – (i) a social security number or a copy of a social security card issued by the Social Security Administration; S. 2155—36 (ii) a certified or official copy of a birth certificate issued by the entity authorized to issue the birth certificate; or (iii) a copy of a driver’s license, an identification card issued by the motor vehicle administration, or any other government issued identification. (2) Placement of security freeze for a protected consumer. (A) In general. Upon receiving a direct request from a protected consumer’s representative that a consumer reporting agency place a security freeze, and upon receiving sufficient proof of identification and sufficient proof of authority, the consumer reporting agency shall, free of charge, place the security freeze not later than – (i) in the case of a request that
