---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/best-cd-rates-4770214
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:54.687783+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
interest Salem Five Direct 4.10% 5 months $10,000 2% of principal balance withdrawn Wings Credit Union 4.10% 6 months $1,000 6 months of interest Communitywide Federal Credit Union 4.10% 6 months $1,000 Complex formula; exercise caution Newtek Bank 4.10% 6 months $2,500 3 months of interest LendingClub 4.10% 8 months $500 All earned interest on amount withdrawn E*TRADE from Morgan Stanley 4.10% 9 or 12 months Any amount 70–90 days of interest depending on term TBO Bank 4.10% 9 months $500 2% of balance Rankings by Term Want to lock in a great CD rate for a longer term? We rank the top 15 or more APYs daily in every major CD term. You can find those here: Best 3-Month CD Rates Best 6-Month CD Rates Best 1-Year CD Rates Best 18-Month CD Rates Best 2-Year CD Rates Best 3-Year CD Rates Best 4-Year CD Rates Best 5-Year CD Rates Best Jumbo CD Rates Connexus Credit Union – 4.50% APY* (7 months) Minimum deposit: $5,000Early withdrawal penalty: 3 months of interestOverview: Anyone can join the credit union by donating $5 to the Connexus Association and holding $5 or more in a savings account. Headquartered in Wasau, Wisconsin, Connexus was established in 1935.Rate verified as of Feb. 6, 2026 *New money required Pros Highest APY available nationwide Cons $5,000 needed to open account Funds must come from an external source Climate First Bank – 4.27% APY (6 months) Minimum deposit: $500Early withdrawal penalty: NoneOverview: Climate First Bank was established in 2021, has three locations in Florida, and offers online banking.Rate verified as of Feb. 6, 2026 Pros No early withdrawal penalty Low minimum deposit Cons No branches outside of Florida Farmers Insurance Federal Credit Union – 4.25% APY* (3, 6, 9, or 12 months) Minimum deposit: $1,000Early withdrawal penalty: Complex formula (3 months minimum)Overview: Anyone is eligible to join the credit union through membership in the American Consumer Council. Farmers Insurance FCU dates back to 1936 and is headquartered in Burbank, California.Rate verified as of Feb. 6, 2026 *Deposited funds must be new to the credit union Pros Choice of four terms: 3, 6, 9, or 12 months Cons Complicated early withdrawal penalty Mountain America Credit Union – 4.20% APY (24 months) Minimum deposit: $500Early withdrawal penalty: 6 months of interestOverview: Anyone can join Mountain America through a complimentary membership in the nonprofit American Consumer Council and keeping at least $1 in a savings account. Established in the 1930s, MACU is headquartered in Sandy, Utah.Rate verified as of Feb. 6, 2026 Pros Low minimum deposit Easy path to membership Cons Physical branches limited to five western states Genisys Credit Union – 4.16% APY (13 months) Minimum deposit: $500Early withdrawal penalty: 3 months of interestOverview: Anyone can join Genisys by making a $5 donation to the Arthritis Foundation or the Paint Creek Center for the Arts and keeping at least $5 in a member savings account. Genisys Credit Union was chartered in 1964 and is headquartered in Auburn Hills, Michigan.Rate verified as of Feb. 6, 2026 Pros Low minimum deposit Easy path to membership Cons No branches outside of Michigan and Minnesota Northern Bank Direct – 4.15% APY (3 or 6 months) Minimum deposit: $500Early withdrawal penalty: 6 months of interestOverview: Northern Bank Direct is the online division of Northern Bank. FDIC-insured since 1960, Northern Bank is headquartered in Woburn, Massachusetts.Rate verified as of Feb. 6, 2026 Pros Low minimum deposit Cons Accounts must be opened online Vibrant Credit Union – 4.15% APY (6 months) Minimum deposit: $5Early withdrawal penalty: All earned interestOverview: Anyone can join Vibrant Credit Union through membership in the Illinois Consumer Council and by maintaining a balance of $5 in a savings account. Headquartered in Moline, Illinois, Vibrant dates back to 1935.Rate verified as of Feb. 6, 2026 Pros Requires only $5 to open Easy path to membership
