---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-the-difference-between-fico-score-and-credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:29.037910+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:28 GMT
---
FICO Score vs. Credit Score: Whatâs the Difference? Quick Answer FICOÂ® offers some of the most widely used credit scores, and people often use "FICOÂ® Score" and "credit score" interchangeably. However, not all credit scores are FICOÂ® Scores. A FICOÂ® ScoreÎ is a branded name for the type of credit score that the company FICO makes and sells. FICO was one of the first companies to offer these scores, which is why the name became genericized. It's similar to how people use Kleenex, Band-Aid and Escalator to describe tissues, adhesive bandages and moving staircases. However, there are different types of credit scores and different kinds of FICOÂ® Scores. Lenders can choose which score, or scores, to use when making decisions and managing customers' accounts. As a result, understanding how credit scores work can be important when you're trying to build your credit or get a loan. Is a FICOÂ® Score the Same as a Credit Score? A FICOÂ® Score is the general name that FICO uses for its credit scoring models. As a result, all FICOÂ® Scores are credit scores. However, not all credit scores are FICOÂ® Scores. Other companies, such as VantageScoreÂ®, also create and sell credit scores. Additionally, some lenders develop their own credit scores to use in place of, or in combination with, a credit score from FICO or VantageScore. Learn more: Credit Score Basics: Everything You Need to Know What Is a FICOÂ® Score? Let's dig a little deeper into what a FICOÂ® Score is and why the term became synonymous with credit scores in general. In 1989, FICO released one of the first credit scores that were based on consumers' credit histories and that different types of lenders could use. Within a few years, FICO's credit scores were available through all three national credit bureaus (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax), and more and more lenders started using the scores when making decisions. Importantly, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac adopted FICOÂ® Scores as the standardized credit scores for conforming mortgages in 1995. Since then, FICO has developed and released many different versions of its credit scores. You can broadly put FICO's credit scores into three groups: Base FICOÂ® Scores: The base FICOÂ® Scores are intended to be used by any type of lender to better understand the likelihood that someone will miss payments in the future. Recent versions of these scores have standardized names, such as FICOÂ® Score 8, FICOÂ® Score 9 and FICOÂ® Score 10. The FICOÂ® Score 10 suite of scores includes a standard FICOÂ® Score 10 model and additional models that can consider trended credit data (FICOÂ® Score 10 T) and/or buy now, pay later (BNPL) data (FICOÂ® Score 10 T BNPL and FICOÂ® Score 10 BNPL). - Industry-specific FICOÂ® Scores: FICO creates variations on its base scores for auto lenders and credit card issuers. For example, there's a FICO Auto Score 10 that goes with the base FICOÂ® Score 10. - FICOÂ® Scores using alternative data: FICO creates several scores that consider information that's not in someone's credit report. For example, the UltraFICOÂ® and FICO XD scores can consider information from a person's bank account or utility accounts, respectively. - Most FICOÂ® Scores range from 300 to 850, but industry-specific scores have a 250 to 900 range. With all the scores, having a higher score is better because it indicates a person is less likely to miss a payment. Get your FICOÂ® ScoreÎÂ for free What Is a Credit Score? A credit score is the numerical output of a credit scoring model. It's an easy-to-read and relatively easy-to-understand way to assess creditworthiness. The inner workings of each credit scoring model differ. However, most credit scoring models try to predict the likelihood that someone will fall 90 days behind on a bill within the next 24 months. A higher credit score means someone is
