---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-plan-for-unexpected-expenses/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:19.416906+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:48 GMT
---
were to have an emergency and needed to get a credit card, such as a 0% introductory APR credit card or medical credit card, a strong credit score could make this easier. It may also help you qualify for a personal loan, if you end up needing more cash to cover a bigger unexpected expense. How to Pay for Unexpected Expenses Because unexpected expenses are just thatâunexpectedâeven the best-laid plans still may not be enough for a major emergency. If you get stuck and need cash in a bind, here a few ideas to help cover the cost: Tap into your emergency fund. If you have enough cash on hand in your emergency fund, you can use some or all of it. That's what it's there for! Just remember to replenish the account as soon as you can so you're covered for your next emergency. - Use a credit card. Using a credit card can help cover unexpected expenses, but try and pay off the balance as soon as possible so you don't rack up interest charges and get into more debt. - Borrow cash from family or friends. If you're able to, ask your family or friends for a loan. If you do borrow cash to cover an expense, remember to pay them back when you're able to. And you may even want to consider drafting up a contract so that there are no misunderstandings. - Ask for an advance at work. Depending on where you work, you may be able to get a cash advance on your paycheck. Or, you may be able to use an early payday app to get a small amount of your next paycheck early. - Get a personal loan. A personal loan may be able to give you the cash you need to cover a bigger unexpected expense. But don't forget to factor in the overall cost of the loan, including interest, when deciding if a loan is the best option for you. - Pick up a short-term side gig. Finding short-term work you can do with quick turnaround time, such as temporarily renting out your home with a home-sharing service, driving grocery or food deliveries or babysitting, could help you fund the emergency expense without tapping into your savings or credit. - The Bottom Line If you keep your financial house in order, an unexpected expense might not have to make or break your budgetâor push you into debt. Try mixing and matching some of these strategies to find what works best for your financial situation. And don't forget to keep regular tabs on your credit score too. You can check your credit score for free with Experian. Want to lower your monthly bills? Weâll negotiate bills for you and cancel unwanted subscriptions. Get startedAbout the author Sarah Archambault is a personal finance writer and editor who enjoys helping others figure out how to make smart financial decisions. Sheâs an expert in credit education, auto finance, banking, personal loans, insurance and credit cards. Read more from Sarah
