---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
this section of its powers under any Act referred to in that subsection, a violation of any requirement imposed under this title shall be deemed to be a violation of a requirement imposed under that Act. In addition to its powers under any provision of law specifically referred to in subsection (b) of this section, each of the agencies referred to in that subsection may exercise, for the purpose of enforcing compliance with any requirement imposed under this title any other authority conferred on it by law. (e) Regulatory Authority (1) In General. The Bureau shall prescribe such regulations as are necessary to carry out the purposes of this title, except with respect to sections 615(e) and 628. The Bureau may prescribe regulations as may be necessary or appropriate to administer and carry out the purposes and objectives of this title, and to prevent evasions thereof or to facilitate compliance therewith. Except as provided in section 1029(a) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, the regulations prescribed by the Bureau under this title shall 86§ 621 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681s apply to any person that is subject to this title, notwithstanding the enforcement authorities granted to other agencies under this section. (2) Deference. Notwithstanding any power granted to any Federal agency under this title, the deference that a court affords to a Federal agency with respect to a determination made by such agency relating to the meaning or interpretation of any provision of this title that is subject to the jurisdiction of such agency shall be applied as if that agency were the only agency authorized to apply, enforce, interpret, or administer the provisions of this title The regulations prescribed by the Bureau under this title shall apply to any person that is subject to this title, notwithstanding the enforcement authorities granted to other agencies under this section. (f) Coordination of Consumer Complaint Investigations (1) In general . Each consumer reporting agency described in section 603(p) shall develop and maintain procedures for the referral to each other such agency of any consumer complaint received by the agency alleging identity theft, or requesting a fraud alert under section 605A or a block under section 605B. (2) Model form and procedure for reporting identity theft. The Bureau, in consultation with the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal banking agencies, and the National Credit Union Administration, shall develop a model form and model procedures to be used by consumers who are victims of identity theft for contacting and informing creditors and consumer reporting agencies of the fraud. See also 70 Fed. Reg. 21792 (04/27/05) (3) Annual summary reports. Each consumer reporting agency described in section 603(p) shall submit an annual summary report to the Bureau on consumer complaints received by the agency on identity theft or fraud alerts. (g) Bureau regulation of coding of trade names . If the Bureau determines that a person described in paragraph (9) of section 623(a) has not met the requirements of such paragraph, the Bureau shall take action to ensure the person’s compliance with such paragraph, which may include issuing model guidance or prescribing reasonable policies and procedures, as necessary to ensure that such person complies with such paragraph. § 623 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2 87 § 622. Information on overdue child support obligations [15 U.S.C. § 1681s-1] Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, a consumer reporting agency shall include in any consumer report furnished by the agency in accordance with section 604 [§ 1681b] of this title, any information on the failure of the consumer to pay overdue support which (1) is provided (A) to the consumer reporting agency by a State or local child support enforcement agency; or (B) to the consumer reporting agency and verified by any local, State, or Federal government agency; and (2) antedates the report by 7 years
