---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/perfect-scores-who-has-them-and-what-do-they-have-in-common/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:39.706686+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:57 GMT
---
perfect 850 credit score will probably continue in the age of the quantified self, it may be more useful to use the characteristics of these consumers as a model to improve your own credit score. Habits you could replicate to see a score boost include: Maintaining low revolving credit balances compared with credit limits; in other words, having a low credit utilization ratio. Those with the highest credit scores typically use less than 10% of their available credit. - Making all debt payments on time. A payment history with few, if any, delinquencies reported on past and present credit accounts will help most. - Growing a reasonably long credit history. Keeping credit card accounts open, even if you rarely use them, can help (assuming they won't provide too much temptation to spend). - Those with exceptional credit, FICOÂ® Scores of 800 and above, will likely receive the same terms as someone with a perfect score of 850âall else being equal. Even those with FICOÂ® Scores slightly below 800 may receive the same terms as those who have reached the top of the credit score scale. Methodology: The analysis results provided are based on an Experian-created statistically relevant aggregate sampling of our consumer credit database that may include use of the FICOÂ® Score 8 version. Different sampling parameters may generate different findings compared with other similar analysis. Analyzed credit data did not contain personal identification information. Metro areas group counties and cities into specific geographic areas for population censuses and compilations of related statistical data. FICOÂ® is a registered trademark of Fair Isaac Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. Whatâs on your credit report? Stay up to date with your latest credit informationâand get your FICOÂ® Score for free. Get your free reportNo credit card required About the author Chris Horymski leads Experian Consumer Serviceâs data research for Ask Experian, where he publishes insights and analysis on consumer debt and credit. Chris is a veteran data and personal finance journalist and previously wrote the Money Lab column for Consumer Reports and headed research at SmartMoney Magazine. Read more from Chris
