---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/mortgage-rates-5094943
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:58.666237+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
whether you can get a significantly lower interest rate than you now have or if you can get a shorter-term mortgage for the amount you're currently paying each month. Bear in mind that refinancing has its own set of closing cost and other fees. Check your credit: Just like the first time you got a mortgage, it pays to check your credit reports and credit score before you apply, correct any errors, and try to improve your score if necessary. Unless you've run into financial difficulties since you bought your home, you're likely to be a better risk now from the lender's perspective, since you'll have a substantial record of timely monthly payments on your record. Plus you've built up some equity in the home, which lenders also like to see. Consider all your options: As with first mortgages, refinancing can take a variety of forms, from a regular mortgage to a cash-out refinancing, which allows you to tap a portion of your home equity for other purposes. Tip If you're ready to pursue a mortgage, you can use our ranking of the best mortgage lenders to assess your options. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) How Much Would the Monthly Payment Be on a $400,000 5% APR 30-Year Mortgage? A 30-year $400,000 mortgage at 5% APR would cost just under $2,600 per month. To calculate variations based on interest rate and mortgage amount, you can use Investopedia's mortgage calculator. How Big of a Mortgage Can I Afford? In general, homeowners can afford a mortgage that’s two to two-and-a-half times their annual gross income. For instance, if you earn $80,000 a year, you can afford a mortgage from $160,000 to $200,000. Keep in mind that this is a general guideline, and you need to look at additional factors when determining how much you can afford, such as your lifestyle as well as your attitudes and habits around personal finance. Your lender will determine what it thinks you can afford based on your income, debts, assets, and liabilities. Using a mortgage calculator can be helpful in this situation to help you figure out how you can comfortably afford a mortgage payment. What Mortgage Rate Can I Get With an 800 Credit Score? A credit score of 800 is considered exceptional and would entitle the borrower to the lowest rates in the market, which can be referenced in the first table at the top of this article. Other factors that can affect the interest rate you pay include your debt-to-income (DTI) ratio, household income, and the size of the down payment on your mortgage. How Much Will I Need for a Down Payment? The minimum you’ll need to put down will depend on the type of mortgage. Many lenders require a minimum of 5% to 20%, whereas others like government-backed ones require at least 3.5%. The VA loan is the exception with no down payment requirements. Generally, the higher your down payment, the lower your rate may be. Homeowners who put down at least 20% will be able to save the most. Which Bank Has the Lowest Mortgage Rate? Bank of America has some of the lowest mortgage rates among big banks right now but many banks and credit unions have competitive rates in local markets around the country so borrowers should do their homework before committing to a mortgage. We rank Bank of America as the best big bank mortgage lender because they offer multiple loan options for low- and middle-income borrowers, have a massive branch network across all 50 states, and offer loans with down payments as low as 0%–3%. When comparing rates on bank and mortgage lender websites it's important to note that many quote rates that involve the purchase of discount points. The rates that Investopedia tracks do not involve discount points. What Income Do You Need for an $800,000
