---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-life-insurance-companies-8763666
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:17.041413+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
our list of best term life insurance providers. Many competitors don’t offer term life insurance that covers you for that long. The minimum death benefit is $100,000, with no maximum, making these policies suitable for individuals with a wide range of coverage needs. You can renew a Banner term policy annually and convert it to a permanent life insurance plan with no additional health examination required. And applying is easy, with an online quote and application process. Pros & Cons Pros Competitive premiums for term life insurance Lengthy 40-year terms available No-medical-exam policies have no coverage caps Cons Fewer permanent policy options than competitors Not many riders available No live chat Overview Many people choose term life insurance because the premiums are more affordable than permanent life insurance. That’s especially true of policies you get from Banner by Legal & General. Its premiums are some of the most competitive we found when gathering quotes for 45 life insurance providers. It’s also the only company besides Protective Life that offers 40-year term policies, which means they could last your entire working life. Most companies limit term coverage to 30 years or less. Like Nationwide, Banner has a low incidence of consumer complaints and an impressive financial stability rating from AM Best. But Banner’s selection of other products is disappointing. Universal life is the only other type of life insurance it sells, though that won’t matter much if you’re set on buying term insurance. The other factor to consider is that you won’t find many riders with whom to customize your coverage. Banner is based in Frederick, Maryland, and owned by Legal & General, which has been in business since 1836. Policy Types & Riders Available Policy Types Term lifeUniversal lifeNo-medical-exam life Available Riders Term conversionChild termWaiver of premiumTerminal illness Also Great for Children’s Life Insurance : Protective Life Protective Life Financial Strength Rating: A+Complaints: Better than expected for company size Get a Quote (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It Protective’s child term rider is the best we found, so it’s possible to add superb protection for your children through your own life insurance policy. Pros & Cons Pros Child term rider offers long-lasting, transferable, and convertible coverage Whole life policies start at just $1,000 in coverage 40-year term life policies available Cons No children’s whole life policies are available All applications require a medical exam Whole life policies don’t pay dividends Overview Investopedia found Protective’s child term rider distinctive because it covers your children until they turn 25, and it’s transferable and convertible to a permanent policy, such as whole life or universal life, when they become adults. However, child coverage is limited to this rider. Protective Life does not sell a standalone child’s whole life policy. Beyond child coverage, Protective has a fine selection of policies and riders for adults. These include term policies for as long as 40 years and whole life policies with death benefits ranging from $1,000 to as high as you can qualify for. There is no maximum coverage limit. Protective Life has been around since 1907 and has its headquarters in Birmingham, Alabama. Policy Types & Riders Available Policy Types Term lifeWhole lifeUniversal lifeIndex universal lifeVariable universal life Available Riders Term conversionChild termGuaranteed insurability riderWaiver of premiumAccidental death benefitTerminal illnessChronic illness Cheapest Term Premiums : SBLI SBLI Life Insurance Financial Strength Rating: AComplaints: Much better than expected for company size Get a Quote (opens in a new tab) Why We Chose It SBLI not only has some of the lowest premiums for term life insurance, but it also has a strong record of customer satisfaction. Additionally, it allows you to convert your term policy to permanent insurance without a medical exam, and this option is included at no extra cost. Pros & Cons Pros Budget-friendly term insurance premiums Helpful online features and
