---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/should-you-bundle-your-home-and-auto-insurance/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:43.863290+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:04 GMT
---
purchasing the plan online, or may take a few days if you work with an insurance agent. - Pay your premium. Once your application is approved, you'll need to pay the premiums to activate your coverage. Some insurers offer discounts for paying your premiums in full, receiving statements digitally or setting up autopay. You usually have the option to make monthly payments if that works better for your budget. - Cancel your existing insurance. Make sure your new coverage is active and you have proof of insurance before canceling your old policy. Going without car or home insurance for even a day is risky. Calling the insurance company is generally the fastest way to cancel your coverage; you may also be able to cancel by mail or email. Be sure to get written confirmation of the cancellation. - Receive any refund due to you. When you cancel your insurance policy, you'll typically get a prorated refund of your premiums. Some insurance companies may charge a fee as a penalty for canceling your policy before its term expires. - The Bottom Line Bundling your home and auto insurance can lower your insurance premiums, but it's important to consider all your options before making this decision. Improving your credit score could also help you save money on car and home insurance. In most states, insurance companies can check your credit-based insurance score when determining your premiums. A poor score shouldn't keep you from getting insurance, but it generally means higher premiums. Credit-based insurance scores differ from FICOÂ® ScoresÎ but are based on many of the same factors. Checking your credit score can give you a good idea of whether taking steps to improve your credit could save you money on insurance. Donât overpay for auto insurance If youâre looking for ways to cut back on monthly costs, it could be a good idea to see if you can save on your auto insurance. Find savingsAbout the author Karen Axelton is Experianâs in-house senior personal finance writer. She has over 20 years of experience as a journalist and has written or ghostwritten content for a variety of financial services companies. Read more from Karen
