---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/loans/articles/-/learn/loan-with-bad-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:24.190921+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
to your income, usually expressed as a percentage. To calculate it, add up your total recurring monthly debt -- credit card payments, rent or mortgage payments, vehicle loan payments, and any others. Divide that by your gross monthly income -- the amount you make each month before taxes, withholdings and expenses. For instance, if you have $2,000 in debt each month, and you make $6,000 in gross monthly income, you have a debt to income ratio of 33 percent; that is, you spend 33 percent of your monthly income on your debt payments. Your debt to credit ratio may be one factor used to calculate your credit scores, depending on the credit scoring model. Other factors may include your payment history, the length of your credit history, how many credit accounts you've opened recently and the types of credit accounts you have. Your debt to income ratio doesn't impact your credit scores, but may be one factor lenders evaluate when deciding whether to approve your credit application. 3. Consider adding a consumer statement to your credit reports. Perhaps your credit situation was affected by a job loss, illness or other circumstances. You can add a 100-word consumer statement to your credit reports to explain. The statement will be part of your credit reports when they are pulled by potential lenders and creditors. 4. Speak to different lenders. Think about getting educational information from different lenders can help you understand their general qualification terms for a loan or line of credit, so you can know what it might take for you to qualify. You may not want to apply for loans at this point, so you can avoid hard inquiries, which may negatively impact credit scores, on your credit reports. 5. Learn about your loan options. Different types of loans have different eligibility requirements. You may want to consider both secured and unsecured loans. A secured loan, such as a home equity line of credit, is tied to an asset you own. If you don’t pay the loan as agreed, your asset could be subject to repossession. An unsecured loan is not tied to an asset. You could also consider getting a co-signer for a loan. 6. Be cautious. Consider avoiding “credit repair” organizations promising a “quick fix” for your credit scores, as well as loans with high fees or interest rates and short loan terms. These types of loans may worsen your credit situation. It may be possible to obtain a loan with low credit scores. Remember that adopting responsible credit behaviors, such as paying your bills on time, every time, may make potential lenders and creditors more confident when you apply for credit in the future. Sign up for a credit monitoring & ID theft protection product today! For $19.95 per month, you can know where you stand with access to your 3-bureau credit report. Sign up for Equifax CompleteTM Premier today!
