---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/can-i-get-a-credit-card-after-bankruptcy/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:30.721084+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:59 GMT
---
scores by a few points. To avoid multiple reductions to your already-depressed scores, take advantage of the free prequalification option offered by many card issuers. This process lets you know if you're likely to qualify for a given card and, if so, how large a borrowing limit you're likely to get. An affirmative prequalification isn't a guaranteeâyou'll need to submit a full application to get a final decisionâbut if you're declined at the prequalifying stage, you can save the trouble of applying and racking up a hard inquiry. Experian's card comparison tool can show you which cards you may qualify for based on your credit profile. - Consider a secured credit card. If you don't qualify for a traditional credit card, a secured credit card can help you rebuild your credit by generating a positive payment history in your credit reports if you make on-time payments. With a secured card, you put down a deposit, which typically serves as the card's credit limit. (The lender will keep your deposit if you stop making payments on the card.) Regular, responsible use of a secured card can lead to credit score improvement. - Start building your credit Tips for Using Credit Cards After Bankruptcy Getting a credit card as soon as possible after a bankruptcy filing, even if it's only a secured card, can help you demonstrate to creditors that you're on a path to responsible credit management. Here are some tips for doing so that will also promote credit score improvement. Avoid excessive balances. Lenders view maxed-out credit cards as a red flag, and even balances that exceed about 30% of your borrowing limit can hurt credit scores. Keeping that percentage, known as your credit utilization ratio, below 10% is best for your credit scores. - Pay your balance in full when possible. If you make a habit of limiting card purchases to amounts you can pay in full each month, you'll avoid interest charges on most cards, demonstrate good credit management and keep utilization down. This can help you build credit and save money. - Always pay your credit card bill on time. Payment history is the most significant factor that determines your FICO Score, the credit score used by 90% of top lenders, so regular on-time payments will help your scores, while late or missed payments can significantly lower them. - How to Rebuild Credit After Bankruptcy Opening a new credit card account and managing it responsibly is a good first step toward rebuilding your credit after bankruptcy. Here are few more: Become an authorized user. If you don't qualify for an unsecured credit card, and can't afford a secured card, you may be able to begin logging a positive payment history as an authorized user on a friend's or family member's credit card account. The account will appear on your credit reports, but the primary cardholder is responsible for making payments to the card issuer. If the primary user keeps their balance low and makes timely payments, your credit scores are likely to improve. - Consider a credit-builder loan. Offered by many credit unions and some other financial institutions, a credit-builder loan can help you save a little money as you work to improve your credit. The lender loans you a small sum (usually less than $1,000), but instead of handing you the cash, it places it in a special savings account that's off limits to you. If you make all required monthly payments on the loanâtypically over a term of 24 months or lessâthe money, plus any accumulated interest, is yours to keep. (If you fail to make your payments, the lender can keep the money). On-time loan payments can help your creditâjust make sure any lender you're considering reports payments to all three credit bureaus. - Monitor your credit reports and scores. Checking your credit regularly
