---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/preventing-fraud/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:09.649953+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
What You Can Do to Avoid Identity and Credit Fraud Quick Answer Awareness of the tactics identity thieves use to steal your information can help you protect your data and avoid fraud. And, knowing the signs can help you detect fraud and respond quickly to protect your credit and minimize damage. Awareness and attentiveness are keys to avoiding credit fraud: Be aware that fraud can occur when criminals get their hands on your personal data, and stay alert for signs that criminals are misusing your information (or trying to trick you into disclosing it). Here are some tips on safeguarding your data and responding appropriately if it is compromised. How Fraud Can Happen Credit fraud and identity theft can take many forms, but all involve abuse of your personal information, such as: Social Security numbers - Driver's licenses or other government-issued photo IDs - Credit card, debit card and other account numbers - Passwords to social media, e-commerce and banking account sites - Some of the ways criminals hijack personal data include: Phishing: Using email, phone, text or social media, criminals pose as trustworthy companies or authorities and try to trick you into disclosing personal data. Keep in mind that unsolicited contacts aren't always who they say they are. - Data breaches: Hacking into commercial computer records can furnish criminals with batches of personal data, which they may abuse themselves or sell to other crooks. - Physical theft: Stolen wallets expose credit cards and ID information that fraudsters can use to hijack your credit. - Learn more: Types of Identity Theft and Fraud How to Protect Your Personal Information Online While you can't absolutely avoid the risks of having your identity stolen, you can protect yourself. The best way to reduce your risk of credit fraud is to be vigilant and protect your information online. Here are some tips for safeguarding your data. Secure your electronic devices and home network. Keep phone and computer software up to date to ensure you have the latest security safeguards. Also make sure your internet router has the latest security options, that your home network is encrypted and that its settings are optimized. - Develop good online security habits. Create strong passwords, using unique passwords for each account and changing them often. When available, take advantage of multifactor authentication, which confirms your identity via voice call or text message as part of your account login. - Don't share your credit card information. Avoid storing credit card numbers on e-commerce sites to limit potential damage in case someone steals the password to your online shopping. - Watch your back. Be smart about online shopping by avoiding public Wi-Fi and taking care that others can't observe or eavesdrop on your account numbers or other personal information. - Learn more: How to Avoid Avoid Identity Theft While Online Shopping What to Do if You Believe You're a Victim of Fraud The following steps can help minimize the damage if your stolen personal data is used to attempt or commit fraud. 1. Place a Fraud Alert or Security Freeze on Your Credit Reports You have the right to place a fraud alert and/or security freeze on your credit reports, which can help protect your credit and avoid fraud. A fraud alert instructs lenders to verify your identity before processing any credit applications received in your name. - A credit freeze restricts access to your credit report so lenders cannot check your credit in connection with new credit applications. - Either of these measures can protect you from criminals attempting to obtain credit in your name and then damaging your credit scores when they fail to repay. (See a comparison of fraud alerts and credit freezes below.) Tip: It's possible to place both a fraud alert and a security freeze on your credit reports, but doing so isn't generally
