---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/protection/creditlock/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:55.243403+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 21:35:43 GMT
---
Experian CreditLock Instantly lock and unlock your Experian credit file to restrict access to your credit, keeping fraudsters and identity thieves away. Try Experian IdentityWorksÂ® Premium free for 7 days, then just $24.99 /monthâ¡ Instantly lock and protect your Experian credit file Why use Experian CreditLock? Prevent unauthorized credit activity and receive alerts if someone tries to apply for credit in your name while your credit file is locked. If you think you have an issue with fraud or identity theft, a fraud resolution agent will guide you with every step until your issue has been resolved. If you become a victim of identity theft, your policy may cover the cost of restoring your identity, lost wages, legal fees and more. What can you do with Experian CreditLock? 3-bureau credit monitoring Get alerted to changes to your Experian, TransUnionÂ® and EquifaxÂ® credit reports to detect suspicious activity and signs of identity theft. Lock and unlock your credit file with ease Lock/unlock your credit file in seconds to block unauthorized credit activity and allow access when you are ready to apply for credit. Get quarterly 3-bureau updates You can view your updated three-bureau credit reports and FICOÂ® Scores to stay up-to-date and compare your credit information. Protect against identity theft and fraud Take advantage of additional services including identy theft monitoring, alerts, dark web surveillance and privacy scans. Frequently asked questions A credit lock is a convenient way to restrict access to your credit report. Experian CreditLock blocks creditors from accessing your Experian credit file preventing them from processing new applications for credit. That can help you avoid fraud by standing in the way of criminals who apply for new credit in your name. Also, Experian CreditLock will notify you if someone attempts to apply for credit in your nameâwhich can serve as an early warning if youâre being targeted by an identity thief. All in all, a credit lock can be a way of increasing security, plus a source of greater peace of mind. To lock your Experian credit report, youâll need to sign up for a premium membership and includes identity theft monitoring, three-bureau credit monitoring and identity theft insurance coverage up to $1 million. Once youâre registered, you can easily lock and unlock your credit instantly. From within the app or on the web, sign in to your Experian account and navigate to the credit tab and scroll to âquick actions.â Next to Experian CreditLock, youâll see a status indicating whether your credit file is currently locked or unlocked. From there, click âmanage.â Then, you can click to lock or unlock your credit, plus view a list of recent lenders whoâve tried to access your Experian credit file. Once youâve locked or unlocked your credit, youâll receive an email from Experian confirming the change. Credit applications will be blocked until you unlock your file again. Locking your credit can be a smart preventative measure against credit fraud, and you donât need to be an active target to benefit from the added peace of mind. Here are some specific scenarios in whichÂ locking your credit fileÂ may be a good idea: Youâre the victim of identity theft. If youâve been targeted by an identity thief, locking your credit can help you put up a barrier to unauthorized credit activity. For instance, if youâre the victim of a phishing attempt, locking your credit can help you limit the scope of the damage. - Youâve been impacted in a data breach. Learning that your sensitive data, such as your Social Security number, has been compromised in a breach can add uncertainty to your financial life. Locking your credit is one way to take control of your identity. - You donât intend to apply for credit in the near future. Even if you donât have reason to believe youâre being targeted by
