---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/executive-orders
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:09:10.252207+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Order of Succession. (a) Subject to the provisions of section 2 of this order, and to the limitations set forth in the Act, the following officials of the Department of Agriculture, in the order listed, shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary of Agriculture (Secretary) during any period in which both the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary of Agriculture have died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Secretary.... Executive Order Providing an Order of Succession Within the Office of the National Cyber Director (Jan. 3, 2025) By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 3345 et seq. (the “Act”), it is hereby ordered that: Section 1. Order of Succession. Subject to the provisions of section 2 of this order, and to the limitations set forth in the Act, the following officials of the Office of the National Cyber Director, in the order listed, shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the office of the National Cyber Director (Director) during any period in which the Director has died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties of the office of Director.... Order Regarding the Proposed Acquisition of United States Steel Corporation by Nippon Steel Corporation (Jan. 3, 2025) .... Actions Ordered and Authorized. On the basis of the findings set forth in section 1 of this order, considering the factors set forth in subsection 721(f) of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as appropriate, and pursuant to my authority under applicable law, including section 721, I hereby order that: (a) The proposed acquisition of U.S. Steel by the Purchasers (Proposed Transaction) is prohibited, and any substantially similar transaction between the Purchasers and U.S. Steel, whether effected directly or indirectly by the Purchasers, through the Purchasers’ shareholders or shareholders’ immediate, intermediate, or ultimate foreign person beneficial owners, or through the Purchasers’ partners, subsidiaries, or affiliates is also prohibited.... Earlier executive orders We maintain some links to earlier executive orders. These are also published in the Federal Register. Other Presidential Actions Documents In addition to executive orders, other presidential actions include notices, memoranda and proclamations. These presidential actions are accessible via the White House website.
