---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-debt-relief-companies-8763179
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:00.590678+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
legal support through its partner, Fortress Legal, for $30 per month. Along with debt settlement, MMI offers credit counseling and debt management plans (DMPs)—these are payment plans, rather than debt forgiveness, which can help you pay what you owe without major damage to your credit. Fees for debt management plans are on a sliding scale, based on income; enrollment fees range from $0 to $75, and monthly fees range from $0 to $59. MMI also provides counseling for housing issues, bankruptcy, disaster recovery, and more. Money Management International offers superb customer service availability, with phone support open 24/7. Past customers agree that MMI provides a high-quality service, summing up to a rating of 4.7 stars in Investopedia’s combined customer satisfaction rating. Money Management International was founded in 1958 (the oldest among debt relief companies we researched) and is based in Stafford, Texas. Fees and Costs If you hire Money Management International for debt settlement and it successfully negotiates your debt, you’ll be charged 7.5% to 18% of the enrolled debt. MMI does not charge a fee for the savings/escrow account that holds your settlement fund—this is much different from other companies, some of which charge nearly $20 per month for that account. Money Management International’s credit counseling service begins with a free initial consultation, which you can sign up for online or by calling the company. You’ll discuss your financial situation with a debt counselor and explore some options. MMI’s paid counseling services are available on a sliding fee scale and include: Debt management plans: One-time enrollment fee of $0 to $75; monthly fee of $0 to $59 after that. Debt management plans are usually intended to pay off your debt within five years. Bankruptcy counseling: Up to $50 for pre-filing and pre-discharge courses. Reverse mortgage counseling: $199 for a course in how reverse mortgages work, required if you're taking out an HECM loan ($299 for proprietary reverse mortgages). First-time homebuyer counseling: Up to $189 for a course on buying your first home, required by some lenders. Money Management International also offers free support in these areas: Credit report review and recommendations on how to improve your credit Student loan counseling Disaster recovery counseling Foreclosure and eviction counseling Also Great for Legal Support : New Era Debt Solutions Investopedia's Rating 3.8 out of 5 stars New Era Debt Solutions Services: Debt settlement, debt consolidation loansDebt settlement fee: 15% to 23% of enrolled debtMinimum debt required: $10,000 Learn More (opens in a new tab) Pros & Cons Pros Legal support available if needed High overall customer satisfaction score Claims to reduce debts by an average of 57% Cons Minimum debt requirement of $10,000 is high Not available in Maine, Oregon, and Iowa Why We Chose It Founded in 1999, New Era Debt Solutions has over 25 years of experience helping people settle their unsecured debts for less. Over that time, it claims to have helped settle over $275 million in debt. The debt settlement process requires you to stop paying your creditors, and those creditors may end up sending you some intimidating letters. New Era says that your chances of being sued while pursuing debt settlement are “quite low,” but if a creditor does bring a lawsuit against you, the company has attorneys on staff to help negotiate your settlement to a better resolution (but they won’t represent you in court). This can bring some peace of mind to debt settlement, even if no attorneys end up getting involved. New Era is available in most states across the country and is easy to get ahold of, with live online chat to answer any questions you may have. It earned a high score in Investopedia’s combined customer satisfaction rating, with 4.6 out of 5 stars. The company has no open complaints with the CFPB. New Era Debt Solutions is based in Camarillo,
