---
source_url: https://www.usa.gov/unclaimed-money
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:54.781450+00:00
last_updated: Sat, 07 Feb 2026 01:13:55 GMT
---
How to find unclaimed money from the government Find unclaimed funds held by the government that might be owed to you. What is unclaimed money? If a business, financial institution, or government owes you money that you did not collect, it is considered unclaimed money or property. You may be able to file for unclaimed money owed to you, or that was owed to a deceased relative if you are their legal heir. Search by state State governments hold most unclaimed money. Bank accounts, insurance policies, or state agencies are common sources of unclaimed funds. Search for unclaimed money from your stateâs unclaimed property office. If you have lived in other states, check their unclaimed property offices, too. Search other databases There is no single place to look for all unclaimed money. Use the separate databases in the following chart, to search for each type of unclaimed money. To find money from: | Check this database: | ---|---| Employers | Unclaimed insurance | Taxes | Investments | SEC enforcement funds â Search the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) database for money from an investment enforcement case. | Bank failures | Savings bonds | Use TreasuryHunt.gov to find matured savings bonds that have stopped earning interest. You can also learn how to replace a lost or destroyed savings bond. | Bankruptcies | Use the U.S. Courts Unclaimed Funds Locator to search for money you may be owed after a person or business declared bankruptcy. | Individual Indian Money (IIM) accounts | The Department of the Interior's Bureau of Trust Funds Administration (BTFA) manages Individual Indian Money (IIM) accounts for Native American and Alaska Native beneficiaries. Check the Whereabouts Unknown search tool to see if you have an unclaimed account. | LAST UPDATED: September 24, 2025 Have a question? Ask a real person any government-related question for free. They will get you the answer or let you know where to find it.
