---
source_url: https://www.usa.gov/agency-index
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:27.856598+00:00
last_updated: Sat, 07 Feb 2026 01:13:46 GMT
---
1-301-504-5755 The Air Force defends the United States in the air and space. Website: Phone number: 1-703-697-3039 Contact: Find an office near you: The Air Force Reserve Command performs missions and supports Air Force operations. Website: Phone number: 1-478-327-1748 (public affairs) The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) collects taxes and enforces regulations on alcohol, tobacco, firearms, and ammunition. Find an office near you: The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) enforces federal criminal laws regulating the firearms and explosives industries. Phone number: 1-202-648-7777 (for criminal intelligence/law enforcement matters only) The Middle East Broadcasting Network operates Alhurra TV. Alhurra TV provide news to the people of the Middle East about the region, the world, and the United States. Website: Phone number: 1-703-852-9000 The American Battle Monuments Commission (ABMC) manages 24 military cemeteries abroad, and 25 memorials, monuments, and markers. Nearly all the cemeteries and memorials honor those who served in World War I or World War II. Website: Phone number: 1-703-584-1501 Find an office near you: Formerly known as the Corporation for National and Community Service, AmeriCorps, and AmeriCorps Seniors engage volunteers in serving directly with nonprofit organizations to tackle the nation's most pressing challenges. Website: Contact: Find an office near you: AmeriCorps Seniors is a network of volunteer programs for Americans 55 years and older. Volunteers work in their community doing academic tutoring and mentoring, elderly care, disaster relief, and more. Website: Contact: The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) protects and promotes U.S. agricultural health, regulates genetically engineered organisms, administers the Animal Welfare Act, and manages wildlife damage. Phone number: 1-202-720-2511 The Antitrust Division promotes economic competition through enforcing and providing guidance on antitrust laws and principles. Website: Contact: Find an office near you: The Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) works for sustainable community and economic development in Appalachia. Website: Phone number: 1-202-884-7700 The Architect of the Capitol manages and maintains the U.S. Capitol, the Capitol Visitor Center, the Senate Office Buildings, the House Office Buildings, the Supreme Court Building, the Library of Congress, the U.S. Botanic Garden, and the Capitol Grounds Website: Phone number: 1-202-228-1793 Contact: Find an office near you: The National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) preserves U.S. government records, manages the Presidential Libraries system, and publishes laws, regulations, Presidential, and other public documents. Find an office near you: The U.S. Arctic Research Commission (USARC) develops and recommends a national Arctic research policy. Website: Phone number: 1-703-525-0111 The Gulfport and Washington campuses of the Armed Forces Retirement Home (AFRH) are retirement centers for veterans of the U.S. military. Website: Phone number: 1-202-541-7501 (to contact a Washington, DC campus resident) The Office of the Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security serves as senior adviser to the president and the secretary of state for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament. Phone number: 1-202-647-4000 Contact: Contact the Office of the Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security The U.S. Army organizes, trains, and equips active duty and Reserve forces to preserve the peace, security, and defense of the United States. Website: Contact: Find an office near you: The Army Corps of Engineers provides public engineering services in peace and war to strengthen national security, energize the economy, and reduce risks from disasters. Website: Phone number: 1-202-761-0031 Find an office near you: The National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS) supports research into the causes, treatment, and prevention of arthritis, musculoskeletal, and skin diseases. Phone number: 1-301-495-4484 Find an office near you:
