---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/liability-vs-full-coverage-car-insurance/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:16.354773+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:55 GMT
---
will likely be required to have full coverage with a lease. - So is there ever a time to consider buying liability only instead of full coverage? Yes. It's a judgment call, but you may want to purchase liability in the following scenarios. You're on a very tight budget. If you simply feel that you can't afford to pay for full coverage, and you own your car outright or the lender is no longer requiring full coverage, you may decide that liability insurance is more practical. - You have an old car. Depending on the age and condition of your vehicle, the cost of full coverage might quickly eclipse its value. But having an older vehicle shouldn't make you automatically get rid of full coverage창older cars sometimes hold their value. You also may want your insurance to fix your old car if it gets banged up. - You have a healthy savings account. You may feel like it would not be a huge imposition to be in a wreck and lose your car. If you have plenty of money saved in your emergency fund for repairs or a new car, you might feel comfortable buying only liability coverage. Then again, you might consider doing what you can to avoid having to empty your emergency fund창including by having full coverage on your vehicle. - Learn more: How to Choose a Car Insurance Company What Should Be Driving Your Decision? Generally, state law requires that you have at least liability coverage for your vehicle. But how much and what types of coverage you purchase beyond that is up to your own judgment and risk tolerance. Still, if you think you'd be in financial trouble if you didn't have an insurance policy that could pay for the expense of damaging or losing your car, full coverage may be a better choice. To potentially find a lower rate on car insurance, consider using Experian's auto insurance comparison tool. Don창t overpay for auto insurance If you창re looking for ways to cut back on monthly costs, it could be a good idea to see if you can save on your auto insurance. Find savingsAbout the author Geoff Williams has been a freelance journalist since the 1990s, writing extensively about personal finance and small business issues. He has written for U.S. News & World Report, The Wall Street Journal, CNNMoney.com, Consumer Reports, Reuters and many more publications. Williams is also the author of several books and writes a classic-TV blog called The TV Professor. Read more from Geoff
