---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
of the following regarding consumers residing nationwide: § 603 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681a 7 (1) Public record information. (2) Credit account information from persons who furnish that information regularly and in the ordinary course of business. (q) Definitions relating to fraud alerts. (1) The term “active duty military consumer” means a consumer in military service who – (A) is on active duty (as defined in section 101(d)(1) of title 10, United States Code) or is a reservist performing duty under a call or order to active duty under a provision of law referred to in section 101(a)(13) of title 10, United States Code; and (B) is assigned to service away from the usual duty station of the consumer. (2) The terms “fraud alert” and “active duty alert” mean a statement in the file of a consumer that – (A) notifies all prospective users of a consumer report relating to the consumer that the consumer may be a victim of fraud, including identity theft, or is an active duty military consum - er, as applicable; and (B) is presented in a manner that facilitates a clear and conspicu - ous view of the statement described in subparagraph (A) by any person requesting such consumer report. (3) The term “identity theft” means a fraud committed using the identifying information of another person, subject to such further definition as the Bureau may prescribe, by regulation. See also 12 CFR Part 1022.3(h) (4) The term “identity theft report” has the meaning given that term by rule of the Bureau, and means, at a minimum, a report – See also 12 CFR Part 1022.3(i) (A) that alleges an identity theft; (B) that is a copy of an official, valid report filed by a consumer with an appropriate Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, including the United States Postal Inspection Service, or such other government agency deemed appropriate by the Bureau; and (C) the filing of which subjects the person filing the report to criminal penalties relating to the filing of false information if, in fact, the information in the report is false. 8§ 603 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681a (5) The term “new credit plan” means a new account under an open end credit plan (as defined in section 103(i) of the Truth in Lending Act) or a new credit transaction not under an open end credit plan. (r) Credit and Debit Related Terms (1) The term “card issuer” means – (A) a credit card issuer, in the case of a credit card; and (B) a debit card issuer, in the case of a debit card. (2) The term “credit card” has the same meaning as in section 103 of the Truth in Lending Act. (3) The term “debit card” means any card issued by a financial institution to a consumer for use in initiating an electronic fund transfer from the account of the consumer at such financial institution, for the purpose of transferring money between accounts or obtaining money, property, labor, or services. (4) The terms “account” and “electronic fund transfer” have the same meanings as in section 903 of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act. (5) The terms “credit” and “creditor” have the same meanings as in section 702 of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act. (s) The term “Federal banking agency” has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. (t) The term “financial institution” means a State or National bank, a State or Federal savings and loan association, a mutual savings bank, a State or Federal credit union, or any other person that, directly or indirectly, holds a transaction account (as defined in section 19(b) of the Federal Reserve Act) belonging to a consumer. (u) The term “reseller” means a consumer reporting agency that – (1) assembles and merges information contained in the database of another
