---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/best-crypto-exchanges-5071855
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:08:08.957576+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
few crypto exchanges to offer FDIC and crypto insurance to help further safeguard traders’ accounts. Best for Experienced Traders In addition to being our choice for security, Gemini is also our top choice for experienced traders due to its ActiveTrader software. The platform offers experienced users the ability to conduct advanced charting techniques, use advanced order types, and trade futures and perpetual contracts. Pros & Cons Pros Highly secure and compliant platform Available in all 50 U.S. states Pass-through FDIC insurance for uninvested cash and crypto insurance Cons Offers a low number of cryptocurrencies Customer support only has a request form Complex fee structure Overview Gemini was founded in 2014 and is currently headquartered in New York, N.Y. Due to its high security standards, Gemini is our choice for users who value security for their cryptocurrency holdings. By default, user accounts are equipped with two-factor authentication. However, Gemini also supports external hardware security keys, such as YubiKey, to secure accounts further. Gemini holds most customer assets in offshore cold storage, and it works to facilitate easy transfers of assets between the exchange and consumer wallets. Gemini also subjects itself to routine third-party audits and affirms that it has completed SOC 1 and SOC 2 Type 2 exams and its ISO 27001 certification. Users can also store their cryptocurrency in either Gemini’s insured hot wallet or its cold wallet. Gemini is also our choice for experienced crypto traders. While high-net-worth individuals can enjoy its high-security standards, they can also appreciate the advanced software it offers with its trademarked tool, ActiveTrader. Even though it offers more than 90 cryptocurrencies, it's still considered a low amount for a major crypto exchange. However, Gemini’s ActiveTrader deserves recognition as a highly advanced platform capable of reaching fast trade execution speed. Experienced traders will have access to high-risk assets such as perpetual contracts and indices. ActiveTrader also provides advanced charting and order types that further assist traders in their cryptocurrency ventures. Gemini has some drawbacks, most notably its fee structure, which can be complex. For ActiveTrader, depending on your 30-day trade volume, maker fees range between -0.01% to 0.20%, while taker fees can range from 0.03% to 0.40%. Gemini's fee schedule for basic order types, such as instant and recurring orders, will cost clients a 1.49% transaction fee combined with a 1% convenience fee. Limit orders will cost a 1.49% transaction fee, but do not have a convenience fee. Additionally, the type of order you use to execute a trade can affect the total cost. Other fees include a 2.50% fee for PayPal fiat transfers and a $25 fee for fiat wire withdrawals. Customer support should also be noted, as traders must submit a form to deal with issues like account management and fraud. Best for Beginners : Coinbase Coinbase Minimum deposit: $0.00Maker fees: 0.00% to 0.40%Taker fees: 0.05% to 0.60% Available cryptocurrencies: 350+ Open Account (opens in a new tab) On with Coinbase Why We Chose It Coinbase is best for beginners due to its sleek user interface, solid security infrastructure, and a reasonable fee structure that is easy to understand. While Coinbase offers an excellent service for investors new to crypto trading, the company also provides more advanced features, which are nonetheless vital for beginning crypto traders. With Coinbase's comprehensive educational resources, beginners can enhance their skills and utilize Coinbase’s more advanced trading tools when they are ready, without having to jump to another exchange that caters to more experienced traders. Pros & Cons Pros Excellent educational and research resources Reasonable fee structure and a good selection of cryptocurrency Available in 172 countries and offers access to web, desktop, and mobile platforms Cons It may not be a good fit for established traders Does not offer margin or option trading and only provides future trading on select crypto Must chat or request a call
