---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/can-you-get-a-personal-loan-with-a-cosigner/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:22.941942+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:01 GMT
---
35% of your FICOÂ® ScoreÎ, so paying all your bills on time is a good way to improve your credit. You can also prioritize paying down debt, which will reduce your DTI and your credit utilization ratio. - Compare lenders. Every personal loan lender is different. Shopping around can help you compare interest rates, loan amounts, repayment terms, fees and eligibility requirements. - Offer loan collateral. Personal loans are usually unsecured, which means there's no asset serving as collateral. Some lenders may allow you to collateralize a personal loan with a savings account, certificate of deposit (CD) or other asset of value. That could lead to a lower interest rate, though these assets will be at risk if you default on your loan. - The Bottom Line Bringing on a cosigner might make you a more attractive candidate for a personal loan, especially if you're struggling to qualify on your own. But it does require commingling your finances with someone else's. That could put your relationship at risk, so you'll want to be upfront with the person who's willing to help. Need a personal loan? Whether you're looking to eliminate debt or access cash fast, compare personal loan offers matched to your credit profile. Start now for freeAbout the author Marianne Hayes is a longtime freelance writer who's been covering personal finance for nearly a decade. She specializes in everything from debt management and budgeting to investing and saving. Marianne has written for CNBC, Redbook, Cosmopolitan, Good Housekeeping and more. Read more from Marianne
