---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-debt-consolidation/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:38.673726+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:20 GMT
---
limit is until you're approved. Depending on how much debt you have, it may not be sufficient to cover your full balance. Learn more: Balance Transfer Credit Card Mistakes to Avoid Debt Consolidation Loan A debt consolidation loan is a personal loan you can use to pay off credit cards, medical bills and other types of debt. Personal loans don't offer a 0% APR promotion, but if you have good or excellent credit, you may be able to get approved for a lower interest rate than what you're currently payingâespecially if you're trying to consolidate credit card debt. Additionally, personal loans offer a fixed repayment schedule, which can range from one to seven years in most cases. This feature can be particularly beneficial for people with credit card debt who struggle to stick to a payment plan. Some personal loan companies charge an upfront origination fee, which can range from 1% to 12% of the loan amount. However, you may be able to avoid an origination fee if you have good or excellent credit. Learn more: How to Get a Debt Consolidation Loan Compare personal loan rates Find APRs from 4.99% to 35.99% and flexible terms of 12 to 120 months. Loan amounts range from $1,000 up to $250,000, with funding available the same day or up to 7 days. Offers from our partners View all of our Best Personal Loans for 2026 to see what youâre likely to qualify for, and the rates and terms you might get. Home Equity Line of Credit (HELOC) A HELOC functions similarly to a credit card in that you get access to a revolving line of credit. During the draw period, which can last up to 10 years, you also typically only need to pay interest on the amount you borrow. If you make it to the repayment period, you'll typically have up to 20 years to pay down your remaining balance. However, if you move before that happens, you'll simply use proceeds from the sale to pay off the debt. Note, however, that if you fail to make payments on a HELOC, you could lose your home. HELOC interest rates can be low, especially if you have great credit. They're also usually variable, which means that your rate can go down if market rates decrease. However, the opposite is also true. One thing to watch out for as you compare HELOCs is the fees, which can come in the form of closing costs, ranging from 2% to 5% of the loan amount, as well as annual fees and prepayment penalties. Learn more: What You Need to Know About HELOCs Home Equity Loan A home equity loan offers a lump-sum disbursement of a portion of your home equity, which you'll repay over a term of up to 30 years. Home equity loan rates can be low, especially if you have excellent credit. They're also fixed, which means you don't have to worry about your costs fluctuating over time. As with HELOCs, though, you may face foreclosure if you default on your payments. As you shop around, you'll want to pay attention to closing costs, which can range from 2% to 5% of the loan amount, and any other potential fees lenders may charge. Learn more: Home Equity Loans an Increasingly Popular Way to Tap Equity Debt Consolidation vs. Debt Settlement Debt settlement is another way to tackle an unwieldy debt burden, but it's not the same as debt consolidation, and it comes with several risks. With debt settlement, you negotiate with your creditors to pay less than what you owe. You can try doing it yourself, or you can hire a debt settlement company to do it for a fee. Debt Consolidation | Debt Settlement | ---|---| Involves paying off one or more existing debts with a new loan or credit card |
