---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/data-research/consumer-credit-trends/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:29.043264+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Consumer credit trends Explore recent developments in consumer credit markets, like the mortgage or credit card market. These dashboards are updated monthly to reflect the latest market developments. Market dashboards These dashboards were last updated on February 06, 2026. Auto loans Loans used by consumers primarily to finance the purchase of new or used automobiles. Credit cards Open-end loans used by consumers to finance purchases or for cash advances. Mortgages Loans used by consumers to finance homes or other real estate. Student loans Closed-end loans used by consumers to finance their educations. About the data Consumer Credit Trends codebook and data dictionary CSV of all Consumer Credit Trends data points The Consumer Credit Trends tool tracks originations for mortgages, credit cards, auto loans, and student loans. It also tracks inquiries for mortgages, credit cards, and auto loans. For originations, the tool charts how specific groups of consumers are faring in financial markets. By tracking trends over time, it should help warn of potential problems in a given market. We use these data to monitor conditions in consumer credit markets, to analyze the effects of our rules, and to conduct research into issues affecting consumers. These dashboards draw from a nationally representative sample of credit records maintained by one of the three nationwide consumer reporting agencies (NCRAs). We cannot control for any shift in market share between our data source and other NCRAs. Before being provided to the CFPB, the records are stripped of any information that might reveal consumers’ identities, such as names, addresses, and Social Security numbers. Page last modified @
