---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/good-debt-vs-bad-debt-whats-the-difference/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:17.558896+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:30 GMT
---
might be able to negotiate to help you save money, lower your monthly bills and get on a manageable path toward paying off the debt. - Financial assistance programs: A financial assistance program might help you lower or pay for necessary expenses, such as utilities and food. You can then use the savings to pay down debts. - 5. Face Hard Decisions If circumstances make it impossible for you to pay off the debts, you may need to consider: Settling past-due debts: If you've fallen behind and are dealing with past-due debt or a collection agency, you may be able to settle your debt for less than the outstanding balance. Settling your debt might be better for your credit than leaving a bill unpaid, and it will stop debt collectors from calling, but it's worse for your credit than repaying the debt in full. - Filing for bankruptcy: Filing for Chapter 7 bankruptcy could help you clear away debts and get a fresh start. A Chapter 13 bankruptcy might get you on a three- to five-year payoff plan but let you keep more of your possessions. Both options could hurt your credit for years to come. - While these might be a last resort, they can help you get out from under overwhelming debt and your credit could eventually recover. Frequently Asked Questions Improve Your Credit to Get Better Loan Offers Improving your credit might help you qualify for better credit offers and save money, even if you have to take on bad debt. You can get your credit report and FICOÂ® ScoreÎ for free from Experian, and get complimentary ongoing credit monitoring. You can also use your account to learn what's affecting your credit score, how to improve your credit and get matched with loan and credit card offers. Find out what debts you owe Your free credit report lists all your debts, such as credit card balances and loans, helping you create a plan to tackle your debt and improve your financial health. Review your creditAbout the author Louis DeNicola is freelance personal finance and credit writer who works with Fortune 500 financial services firms, FinTech startups, and non-profits to teach people about money and credit. His clients include BlueVine, Discover, LendingTree, Money Management International, U.S News and Wirecutter. Read more from Louis
