---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-use-a-credit-card-to-build-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:42.279861+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:52 GMT
---
How to Use a Credit Card to Build Credit Quick Answer You can build credit with a credit card by regularly using the card, using a small amount of your credit limit and making all of your payments on time. By following these tips, you can build a good credit score. Credit cards offer one of the best ways for you to build your credit and improve your credit scores by showing how you manage credit on a regular basis. If you want to build good credit, use credit cards regularly while making all your payments on time and using a small portion of your card's credit limit. Here's what you need to know. How To Start Building Credit With a Credit Card Credit cards help you build credit because credit card issuers typically report your account and activity to the national credit bureausâExperian, TransUnion and Equifax. The bureaus then use this information to create your credit reports, which are the basis of your credit scores. To start building credit with a card, you'll need to either open a credit card of your own or become an authorized user on someone else's credit card. Getting a card of your own can be difficult if you've never had credit before, or if you have poor credit. However, there are options. Secured credit cards are often a stepping stone if you're starting to build or rebuild your credit. These cards function like normal credit cards, but you'll have to send the card issuer a refundable security deposit when you open your account. Secured cards may have high fees and don't necessarily offer great cardholder benefits, but responsible use can help you qualify for better credit cards later. - A student credit card can also be a good first option if you're a student. Student cards tend to have low credit limits; however, there are student cards available that have few fees and offer rewards on purchases. - You can also ask a friend or family member to add you as an authorized user on one of their credit cards. When they do, their credit card company can report the account to the bureaus under your name as well. You'll get your own card and can make purchases, as long as the primary cardholder agrees. Having another person's card as part of your credit history can help you build creditâas long as the primary user manages their card well. Your credit won't be helped if the primary cardholder doesn't make payments on time, for example. Once you begin building good credit of your own, it may be easier to get approved for different types of unsecured credit cards. What Are the Best Ways to Use a Credit Card to Build Credit? A credit card can either help you build positive credit or hurt your creditâit all depends on how you use it. To work your way toward good credit scores, focus on making on-time payments and avoid maxing out your card. Here are the best ways to use your credit card to your benefit: Pay Your Bill on Time The most important factor in your credit scores is payment history. To build credit with your credit card, make at least your minimum payment on time every month. If you miss your bill's due date, the card issuer may charge you a fee and you could lose any introductory or promotional interest rates on your account. One of the best ways to ensure you never miss a payment is to set up autopay on your account. You can make the minimum payment using autopay, then pay the remaining balance, or as much as you can, separately. If you make a late payment, the credit card company can report your account as late to the credit bureaus once it's 30 days past due. A late
