---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/why-would-you-want-a-good-credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:51.502751+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:35 GMT
---
credit cards and other revolving credit accounts elevate your credit utilization rate and can hurt your credit scores. Individuals with the highest credit scores tend to keep their credit utilization ratio in the low single digits. Catch Up on Past-Due Accounts If you're behind on any bills, bringing them current can help your credit scores. A late payment can remain on your credit report for up to seven years, but just because you've already missed a payment doesn't mean you should give up. Bringing your past-due accounts current stops additional score-damaging late payments from appearing in your credit history and prevents costly late fees. Limit New Credit Applications You can't build a credit history without a record of borrowing and repaying some combination of loans, credit cards, in-store financing and/or other forms of personal credit. Nevertheless, each credit application you submit can lead to a hard inquiry that lowers your credit scores. The impact of these inquiries is typically small and short-lived, but too many within a short time can add up and significantly lower your credit scores. Opening multiple new accounts can also decrease the average age of all your accounts, which can also hurt your scores. One important exception is when you're rate shopping for certain types of installment loans, such as an auto loan or mortgage. Credit scoring models recognize that rate shopping isn't risky behavior and may ignore some inquiries if they occur within the span of a couple of weeks. Build a Diverse Credit Portfolio As you slowly and steadily begin building a credit portfolio, keep in mind that credit scoring systems such as the FICOÂ® Score and VantageScoreÂ® tend to react positively to evidence that you can handle multiple loans of different typesâa scoring factor known as credit mix. A combination of revolving accounts such as credit cards or personal lines of credit and installment accountsâsuch as an auto loan, student loan or mortgageâwill tend to promote score improvement. The Bottom Line As you work toward achieving the best credit score you can get, it may be helpful to review your FICOÂ® Score for free through Experian to chart your progress. If you stick to good credit habits and keep in mind that it's normal for scores to fluctuate some on a month-to-month basis, you can take satisfaction in long-term score improvementâand the many benefits it confers. Instantly raise your FICOÂ® Score for free Use Experian BoostÂ® to get credit for the bills you already pay like utilities, mobile phone, video streaming services and now rent. No credit card required About the author Jim Akin is freelance writer based in Connecticut. With experience as both a journalist and a marketing professional, his most recent focus has been in the area of consumer finance and credit scoring. Read more from Jim
