---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
authorize the establishment of any new credit plan or extension of credit described in clause (i), other than under an open-end credit plan (as defined in section 103(i)), in the name of the consumer, or issuance of an additional card on an existing credit account requested by a consumer, or any increase in credit limit on an existing credit account requested by a consumer, except in accordance with subparagraph (B); and (ii) a telephone number or other reasonable contact method designated by the consumer. (B) Limitation on users. No prospective user of a consumer report or of a credit score generated using the information in the file of a consumer that includes an extended fraud alert in accordance with this section may establish a new credit plan or extension of credit, other than under an open-end credit plan (as defined in section 103(i)), in the name of the consumer, or issue an additional card on an existing credit account requested by a consumer, or any increase in credit limit on an existing credit account requested by a consumer, unless the user contacts the consumer in person or using the contact method described in subparagraph (A)(ii) to confirm that the application for a new credit plan or increase in credit limit, or request for an additional card is not the result of identity theft. (i) National security freeze. (1) Definitions. For purposes of this subsection: (A) The term ‘consumer reporting agency’ means a consumer reporting agency described in section 603(p). (B) The term ‘proper identification’ has the meaning of such term as used under section 610. (C) The term ‘security freeze’ means a restriction that prohibits a consumer reporting agency from disclosing the contents of a § 605A - 15 U.S.C. § 1681c-1 31 consumer report that is subject to such security freeze to any person requesting the consumer report. (2) Placement of security freeze. (A) In general. Upon receiving a direct request from a consumer that a consumer reporting agency place a security freeze, and upon receiving proper identification from the consumer, the consumer reporting agency shall, free of charge, place the security freeze not later than – (i) in the case of a request that is by toll-free telephone or secure electronic means, 1 business day after receiving the request directly from the consumer; or (ii) in the case of a request that is by mail, 3 business days after receiving the request directly from the consumer. (B) Confirmation and additional information. Not later than 5 business days after placing a security freeze under subparagraph (A), a consumer reporting agency shall – (i) send confirmation of the placement to the consumer; and (ii) inform the consumer of – (I) the process by which the consumer may remove the security freeze, including a mechanism to authenticate the consumer; and (II) the consumer’s right described in section 615(d)(1)(D). (C) Notice to third parties. A consumer reporting agency may advise a third party that a security freeze has been placed with respect to a consumer under subparagraph (A). (3) Removal of security freeze. (A) In general. A consumer reporting agency shall remove a security freeze placed on the consumer report of a consumer only in the following cases: (i) Upon the direct request of the consumer. (ii) The security freeze was placed due to a material misrepresentation of fact by the consumer. (B) Notice if removal not by request. If a consumer reporting agency removes a security freeze under subparagraph (A)(ii), the consumer reporting agency shall notify the consumer in writing prior to removing the security freeze. 32§ 605A - 15 U.S.C. § 1681c-1 (C) Removal of security freeze by consumer request. Except as provided in subparagraph (A)(ii), a security freeze shall remain in place until the consumer directly requests that the security freeze be removed. Upon receiving a direct request from
