---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/best-online-brokers-4587872
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:08:17.761941+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
corporate relations at the CFP Board of Standards, said, “The financial services landscape has dramatically changed over the past 30 years. Firms that once served specific clients now compete to keep pace with broader client needs and lower-cost competitors. [Full]-service and online brokers have had to expand their offerings and cut costs to stay competitive. As a result, investors benefit from more similar and competitively priced products across the financial planning ecosystem.” Frequently Asked Questions What Is the Number One Online Stock Broker? The online brokerage industry is a highly competitive space consisting of a wide range of companies, each offering its own set of features that will appeal differently to individuals. After two months of comprehensive research, Investopedia found that Fidelity offers the best overall online brokerage services and trading platform. Not only did Fidelity earn the highest overall score when measured by our proprietary scoring model, but it also scored highly for its low costs, excellent ETF selection and research, and robust cash management product. What Is an Online Brokerage Account and How Does it Work? A brokerage account is a type of account similar in function to the accounts you have with a bank. With a brokerage account, you deposit funds with an investment firm (the brokerage). This is usually done by a transfer from your existing bank account. Once funds are added to your brokerage account, you can put the money to work using the brokerage's trading platform to invest those funds in the market. The assets you buy with your cash can be anything offered by that brokerage, including stocks, bonds, ETFs, and even cryptocurrency.Your online brokerage account will display your holdings (the assets you've purchased) as well as your cash balance (your buying power). If you invest in something that gains in value, you can sell it and the profits will be deposited in your online brokerage account. From there, you can place another trade or even transfer the funds out to your regular bank account to use elsewhere. Some brokerage accounts even allow you to earn interest on your uninvested cash. How Much Money Do you Need to Open a Brokerage Account? There is no longer a real minimum to start investing in the financial markets. With many brokers offering margin accounts with access to fractional shares and no required minimums, you can open and fund an account with any amount of money. If you don't have a lot of money to invest, however, it will influence how you approach the market. Although you could invest $1 in fractional shares of a specific stock, the better approach with limited capital is to use ETFs. Index tracking ETFs, for example, offer greater diversification for your dollar than a single company stock because every share (and fractional share) of the ETF replicates an index made up of many companies in many different industries. You could also consider using options to leverage your dollars with a directional bet on the market or a specific stock, but this is an investment strategy best reserved for risk capital—not the whole of your limited investment capital.When investing with small sums, consistency is the key to building wealth. If you can regularly put a set amount of money into the market—even $10 a week—you will be surprised at how quickly it begins to grow. This consistency also helps to smooth market effects, as you will be buying dips and peaks as the market goes up and down. Can You Invest With a Small Amount of Money? Many online brokers allow for small minimum deposits which can be a great alternative for those with limited funds. Account minimums (if any) are displayed at the top of our reviews, as well as in our selection of the best platforms for different types of investors. If you are looking for more general guidance
