---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-the-dark-web/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:03.506641+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:28 GMT
---
What Is the Dark Web? The dark web is a part of the internet that's difficult to access without special softwareâand can be difficult to navigate once you gain access. Multiple layers of encryption allow people to browse and post information on the dark web with near anonymity, making it a go-to platform for buying and selling illicit goods and services. What Are the Three Levels of the Internet? To better understand what the dark web is, it can be helpful to learn about the three levels of the internet. Surface Web The surface web or clear web is the public part of the internet that anyone can easily access with an internet browser and search engine. Search engines "crawl" the surface web for new websites and pages, and index their findings. When you search for a website or term, the search engine shows you results from its index that it thinks best match your query. News and informational websites (including this blog), e-commerce sites, video-hosting platforms and many other types of websites are all part of the surface web. And while you may spend a lot of time on the surface web, it only makes up about 4% of the internet. Deep Web The deep web, also known as the invisible or hidden web, is the majority of the internet. You won't find these pages in search engine results, but you likely visit them every day. The deep web includes: Pages that require a login: Social media sites, streaming services, email and banking all have home pages that are in the surface web. However, once you log in to your account, you enter the deep web. - Content that isn't indexed: A website, page or piece of content might be excluded from the list that search engines crawl and therefore won't show up in the search results. You can still access non-indexed pages if you know the URL or are linked there from another page. - Secure storage: Much of the deep web is made up of photos, videos, research papers, medical records and other data that is stored online but only accessible with the proper credentials. - Intranets: Businesses, schools and governments may maintain their own private networks that are built for the organization's use, but also connected to the internet. This intranet might provide a way for employees to communicate, store files or view informational pages regarding company policy. - The separation between the surface web and deep web is essential for how we use the internet. After all, you don't want your bank statements appearing in someone's search results. However, the deep web is still connected to the internet, which means a hacker could break through a company's security systems and access your personal information via what's known as a data breach. Dark Web The dark web is a small subsection of the deep web that's only accessible with special tools, software or authorization. Similar to the deep web, search engines don't index material that's on the dark web. As with the other parts of the internet, the dark web doesn't refer to a specific site or page. Instead, it's a type of network called a darknet. If you set up a private and secure network with a group of friends, that could be an example of a darknet. How Does the Dark Web Work? The Tor network is one of the largest and most well-known darknets, and it's what most people are referring to when they discuss the dark web. Torâshort for "The Onion Router"âbounces information through a series of encrypted layers (like an onion) that offers users more anonymity. There are onion sites and services on the Tor network, and page addresses end in .onion. To access the dark web, you can download and install the free Tor browser. (You can also use it
