---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/debt-management/articles/-/learn/what-can-collection-agencies-do/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:05.340092+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
What Can a Debt Collection Agency Do? Highlights: If you have a credit account with a balance that is past due, your lender may enlist the help of a debt collector. If this happens, it’s important to understand what debt collectors can do to recover a debt. - Consumers are legally protected against unfair collection practices by the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA). You can report problems to the Federal Trade Commission via ftc.gov. - Late payments can remain on your credit reports for up to seven years from the original delinquency date. However, if you pay off the debt as soon as you can, the debt collector may update your credit reports to show the collection account now has a zero balance. - What happens when you are sent to a collections agency? If you have a credit account with a balance that becomes past due, your lender may enlist the help of a collection agency. Collection agencies are companies that purchase consumer debt and work to recover unpaid balances. Some lenders have special in-house departments dedicated to debt collection, while others hire third parties to handle collections on their behalf. Some lenders may even hire legal representation to sue borrowers to recover outstanding debts. However, in all of these cases, the goal remains the same: to contact borrowers and secure the outstanding balance on any past-due accounts. What happens when your debt is sent to a collection agency? If your past-due debt has been purchased by a collection agency, they will first notify you either by phone or in writing. By law, you must receive written notice, also known as a debt validation letter, within five days of the collector's first attempt to contact you. This notice must include the amount you owe, the name of the original creditor and a statement of your right to dispute the debt. It's important to keep this letter throughout the debt collection process, as it can be an important tool should you need to dispute the debt for any reason. After you have been contacted by the debt collector, it's time to take steps to repay what you owe. Although the collection agency may not report the unpaid debt to the three nationwide consumer reporting agencies—Equifax, TransUnion and Experian — it is a good idea to check your credit reports. This is one way to know whether your credit is being impacted by the past-due debt. What can a debt collection agency do? The prospect of strangers knocking on your door and asking for money that you may not be able to pay can be scary, especially if you're unsure of your rights. What can collection agencies do to collect payment on a debt? What rights do you have if you find yourself unable to pay? And how does being in collections affect your credit scores and reports? Can debt collectors call you at work? Debt collectors are not legally allowed to contact you at a time or place that is unusual or that they know is inconvenient to you. Thus, if you tell a collection agency you are not allowed to receive personal calls at work, they cannot call you there. Collectors are also prohibited from calling you before 8 a.m. and after 9 p.m. Can debt collectors call your family? A debt collector may only contact other people, such as family members or friends, to gain information about how to locate you. This might include where you live, your phone number and where you work. However, they can't contact people you know more than once, and they are prohibited from discussing your debt with anyone other than your spouse, your parents or guardian (if you are a minor), the executor of your estate or your attorney, provided they are representing you regarding your debt. Can a collection agency
