---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-dark-web-monitoring/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:01.483425+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:20 GMT
---
days and several years in some cases. It can also be an expensive endeavor, requiring a lot of your time to track down, report and resolve the issues that arise창in some cases, you may need to miss work to stay on top of things. Identity theft left unaddressed can also have a big impact on your credit score, which will make getting financing expensive or even impossible. If identity theft has affected your credit reports, you might explore filing a dispute with the credit bureaus that maintain them. One of the best ways to reduce the amount of time and money it requires to rebound from identity theft is to spot it before it happens (or early on in the process) and take steps to stop the thief in their tracks. How You Can Protect Your Information From the Dark Web In addition to monitoring that will alert you if your information shows up on the dark web, it's important to take a few extra steps to stay safe. There are some things you can do to reduce the odds that your personal information will land in the wrong hands in the first place and also spot the signs of identity theft early: Use strong passwords and change them regularly. With so many aspects of our life online, it's virtually impossible to remember a unique password for each online account. Consider using a password manager like LastPass or 1Password to help you set and keep track of strong passwords for each website you use. Also, consider changing your passwords regularly in case the information does get leaked. - Browse securely. If you're on a public network like the one coffee shops, shopping malls and airports provide, use a virtual private network to protect others from eavesdropping on your connection. The same goes for using secure websites창before you provide any type of personal information, make sure the website you're using is secure. You can do this by checking to make sure the URL begins with HTTPS, or your browser might show a padlock icon or the word "secure." - Safeguard your information. There are several different ways criminals can access your personal information. Prevention tactics include signing up for e-statements so they can't get it from your mailbox, password-protecting your mobile devices, keeping your Social Security number and passport in a safe or lockbox, and avoiding leaving your wallet or purse in your vehicle. - If you've already fallen victim to identity theft, you may be able to spot the signs by checking your bank and credit card statements and online accounts regularly for transactions you don't recognize, checking your score and credit report frequently, and looking out for suspicious communications. Once you spot identity theft, be sure to file an identity theft report with the Federal Trade Commission. Depending on the situation, you may also need to file a police report with local law enforcement and also contact your state's motor vehicle department, the U.S. postal service, the Federal Bureau of Investigation or the U.S. State Department passport agency. You may also want to request a fraud alert or security freeze on your credit reports. These can help prevent fraudsters from opening new credit accounts in your name. Proactive Monitoring Can Help Reduce Your Risk Cybercriminals aren't likely to let up anytime soon, so it's extremely important to do everything you can to safeguard your information. Monitoring your online information via dark web monitoring and credit monitoring창especially through services that do all the legwork and notify you of potential issues창can let you sleep a little better, knowing you will be notified if you need to take action to prevent financial or reputational harm. Is your info on the dark web? Internet criminals buy and sell personal data on the dark web to commit fraud. Could they have your info? Find
