---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/credit/credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:57.817188+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 21:35:42 GMT
---
Free credit score Get your FICOÂ® Score*Â for free and see how you can improve it. No credit card required Lenders like FICOÂ® Scores FICOÂ® Scores are used by lenders more than any other brand of credit scores. No credit card required Sign up and check for changes to your FICOÂ® Score, updated daily. No impact to your score Checking your own credit wonât lower your credit scores. Check your FICOÂ® Score for free Why get your free credit score with Experian? View the specific factors that are impacting your FICOÂ® Score. See the same type of information that lenders see when requesting your credit. What can you do with your credit score? Get a loan With a higher credit score, you could qualify for better loan products with better terms and higher loan amounts. Experian can help you find loans based on your FICOÂ® Score. Access personalized credit cards Get credit card offers based on your unique credit and see if youâre matched before you apply. From rewards cards to balance transfer cards and more, Experian can help find the right card for you. Save money on interest When taking out a large loan, even a small difference in interest rates can save you thousands of dollars over the life of the loan. Borrowers with higher credit scores will find it easier to secure the lowest interest rates. Find better insurance rates Insurance companies often consider your credit history or a credit-based insurance score as one of many factors to determine your rates. Some states strictly limit or entirely prohibit insurance companies' use of credit information. Frequently asked questions A credit report is a record of your history managing your credit and debt. It includes how and when you paid your bills, how much debt you have and how long youâve managed your credit accounts. Credit reports contain your positive information, such as on-time payments and accounts in good standing. They also show negative items, such as collections, bankruptcies and foreclosures. AÂ credit scoreÂ is a three-digit number, often ranging from 300 to 850, that lenders use to evaluate your ability to repay any money you borrow. Credit scores are commonly based on information in your credit report, including your payment history, amounts owed, credit history length, credit mix and new credit. A credit score can also provide the model used (e.g., FICOÂ®), the version number (e.g., 8.0), and the credit report data used (e.g., Experian). Scores can also include a risk factor range, from Poor to Exceptional, along with the score factors that are positively and negatively impacting your score. Why is a credit score important? A credit score is important because it can affect your finances and ability to achieve your goals, such as owning a home and buying a car. With a higher credit score, youâre showing lenders that youâre a responsible borrower who can manage your finances well. While creditors look at many factors, showing good credit management can open doors to new opportunities, including offers for new services or products that could benefit you. How often is a credit score updated? With every new update from a creditor to your credit report, there can be a potential change to your credit scores. How often should you check your credit score? You can check it any time, but itâs especially important before you make a major purchase or apply for a loan or credit card. How can you establish credit if you have no prior credit history? If youâre just starting out, Experian can help you establish and get access to credit with Experian Go. Your credit score is determinedÂ by a scoring model that analyzes your credit report and then assigns you a score. This score usually ranges from 300 to 850. FICOÂ® and VantageScoreÂ® are the two main credit scoring models, and they
