---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/can-i-get-an-emergency-loan-with-bad-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:21.147358+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:59 GMT
---
mind, though, that many banks that offer traditional personal loans may require higher credit scores to get approved. Credit Unions Credit unions are nonprofit organizations owned by their members, so instead of maximizing profits to benefit third-party shareholders, credit unions use their revenue to provide lower interest rates and fees to their members. One product where this approach makes a significant difference is the payday alternative loan (PAL). There are two types of PALs you may come across. Here's how they differ: Feature | PAL I | PAL II | ---|---|---| Loan amounts | $200 â $1,000 | Up to $2,000 | ---|---|---| APR | Up to 28% | Up to 28% | ---|---|---| Repayment term | 1 â 6 months | 1 â 12 months | ---|---|---| Eligibility | Must be a member of the credit union for at least one month | Available immediately upon joining the credit union | ---|---|---| The caveat is that not all credit unions offer payday alternative loans, so you'll need to do your research, which can be challenging if you're in a situation where you need cash yesterday. Learn more: Emergency Loans: Where to Get the Best Ones How to Choose a Bad-Credit Emergency Loan As you research and compare your options, here are some important factors to keep in mind to ensure you're getting the best deal possible: Applicant requirements: Beyond credit score requirements, lenders will typically also have income requirements. In some cases, you may need to provide collateral to secure the loan. Focus on lenders that can give you good approval odds. - Loan amounts: Some lenders may only offer a few hundred dollars or less, while others may be willing to lend you thousands of dollars. Depending on the severity of your financial emergency, skip the lenders that can't give you the amount you need. - The cost of the loan: While some of the worst emergency loan options charge triple-digit APRs, others may offer more reasonable rates. As you compare your options, make sure you're comparing APRs because they incorporate all of the costs of borrowing. - Repayment term: Depending on which type of loan you choose, your repayment term could be anywhere from a couple weeks to five years. If you don't expect your emergency situation to last long, you could opt for a shorter term. But if you're concerned about your ability to repay in the next few weeks or months, consider a longer term. - Time to receive funds: If your situation is urgent, focus on lenders that offer same-day or next-day funding. - Other Sources of Emergency Money While personal loans and payday alternative loans are often the most cost-effective emergency loan options, your situation may necessitate expanding your search. Here are some other potential options you may consider: Cash advance app: Also called a paycheck advance, this option could offer you between $50 and $1,000, which you'll typically repay by your next payday. While some cash advance apps don't charge interest, they may charge a fee to get your cash more quickly. Others may charge monthly fees, both of which could result in high APRs. - Credit card cash advance: If you have a credit card that allows cash advances, you could tap some of your credit limit with an ATM withdrawal. Cash advance APRs tend to be higher than a card's purchase APRâand they also come with an upfront feeâbut they're still less expensive than many other emergency loan options. - Financial assistance programs: Depending on your needs, you may be able to get help with certain basic expenses through programs offered by the government and community organizations. If you need help with groceries, rent, utilities, housing costs, medical bills or other basic needs, call 211 to learn more about local resources. - Borrowing from friends or family: If you have
