---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-credit-bureau/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:17.924368+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:15 GMT
---
What Are Credit Bureaus and How Do They Work? Quick Answer Credit bureaus gather and organize information about consumers to create consumer credit reports. They sell these reports, along with credit scores, to creditors. Credit bureaus, also known as credit reporting agencies or consumer reporting companies, play an integral part in the financial lives of millions of people. The big threeâExperian, TransUnion and Equifaxâcollect and organize data to create consumer credit reports. The bureaus don't make lending decisions or determine your credit scores. However, when you apply for a loan or line of credit, the creditor will often purchase a credit report and a score based on the report from a credit bureau. The Three Major Consumer Credit Bureaus The three major consumer credit bureaus are often lumped together, but they're competitors that try to create the largest and most accurate databases. Here's a little more background on the bureaus. Experian Experian's history dates back to the early 1800s when a group of tailors in London started sharing information about customers who missed payments. However, the Experian name and the company's U.S. presence are the result of a series of mergers and acquisitions that happened in the mid-1990s. Today, Experian is a global leader in the credit space, with information on over 1.5 billion consumers and 201 million businesses. TransUnion TransUnion was created in 1968 as the parent holding company for a railcar leasing company, but acquired the Credit Bureau of Cook County the next year. TransUnion continued building its credit reporting business and it is now one of the largest credit bureaus in the U.S. and Canada. It also has global credit reporting operations in the UK, India and parts of Africa, Asia Pacific and Latin America. Equifax Equifax is one of the oldest U.S.-based credit bureaus. The Retail Credit Co. was founded in 1899 and changed its name to Equifax in 1975. Equifax has also expanded into global markets over the years and offers credit-related services in Asia Pacific, Canada, Europe and Latin America. Other Consumer Reporting Companies There are also many specialty consumer reporting companies. Some focus on information that landlords want to know, such as whether you've ever been evicted, while other reporting companies track and report consumers' insurance claims or checking account history. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) maintains a list of consumer reporting companies with details on how you can request a free copy of your consumer report from each company. How Do Credit Bureaus Get Information? Most of the credit bureaus' information comes from other companies. In the credit world, these companies are called data furnishers. In everyday terms, they're the same financial institutions that you regularly interact with, including: Banks - Credit unions - Credit card issuers - Mortgage lenders - Loan servicers - Collection agencies - Data furnishers send information to the credit bureaus about their customers' accounts, such as when you opened an account, its current balance and whether you paid the bill on time. Generally, furnishers send an update every month. Companies will also report information from your applications to the bureaus, which is one reason your credit report might contain your current and past names, addresses, telephone numbers and employers. Furnishers aren't required to send information to the credit bureausâit's all voluntary. But doing so allows furnishers to report late payments to the bureaus, incentivizing borrowers to pay their bills on time. What Information Do Credit Bureaus Collect? Although most of the information in your credit report comes from data furnishers, the credit bureaus collect public records data, such as bankruptcy filings. Tax liens and civil judgments used to be part of consumer credit reports, but the bureaus no longer add these to your credit reports. What Information Isn't in Your Credit Report? Even if the information is available, credit bureaus also don't include everything on your
