---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/about-ftc
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:55:02.952235+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 09 Feb 2026 07:50:34 GMT
---
Our Mission Protecting the public from deceptive or unfair business practices and from unfair methods of competition through law enforcement, advocacy, research, and education. Our Vision A vibrant economy fueled by fair competition and an empowered, informed public. Our Strategic Goals Protect the public from unfair or deceptive acts or practices in the marketplace - Protect the public from unfair methods of competition in the marketplace and promote fair competition - Advance the FTC’s effectiveness and performance - How the FTC Benefits Consumers As a consumer or business person, you may be more familiar with the work of the Federal Trade Commission than you think. The FTC deals with issues that touch the economic life of every American. The FTC is the only federal agency with both consumer protection and competition jurisdiction in broad sectors of the economy. The FTC pursues vigorous and effective law enforcement; advances consumers’ interests by sharing its expertise with federal and state legislatures and U.S. and international government agencies; develops policy and research tools through hearings, workshops, and conferences; and creates practical and plain-language educational programs for consumers and businesses in a global marketplace with constantly changing technologies. FTC’s work is performed by the Bureaus of Consumer Protection, Competition and Economics. That work is aided by the Office of General Counsel and eight regional offices. History of the FTC When the FTC was created in 1914, its purpose was to prevent unfair methods of competition in commerce as part of the battle to “bust the trusts.” Over the years, Congress passed additional laws giving the agency greater authority to police anticompetitive practices. In 1938, Congress passed a broad prohibition against “unfair and deceptive acts or practices.” Since then, the Commission also has been directed to administer a wide variety of other consumer protection laws, including the Telemarketing Sales Rule, the Pay-Per-Call Rule and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act. In 1975, Congress gave the FTC the authority to adopt industry-wide trade regulation rules. Learn more about the FTC's history The FTC will never demand money or personal information from you. If you have been targeted by an illegal business practice or scam, report it at ReportFraud.ftc.gov.
