---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-use-a-credit-card/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:29.258255+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:52 GMT
---
scores. People with the highest credit scores tend to have a credit utilization ratio under 10%. 2. Pay Your Bill on Time One of the most crucial aspects to smart credit card usage is sending every payment on or before the due date. Payments are listed on your credit reports, and while on-time payments can help improve your credit, payments that are 30 days or more late will hurt them. Some card issuers provide a grace period that gives you a few weeks to pay your statement's bill. But you can make extra payments at any time, and you can always pay more than the minimum. If you struggle to remember your due dates, set up automatic bill pay. 3. Try to Pay Your Bill in Full While you have the option to pay only a small minimum amount each month, it's ideal to never carry a balance in the first place. When you pay off your balance in full each month, you avoid interest charges. You also help yourself live within your means, which is important for financial health and can help you avoid going into debt. Interest on credit card compounds, which means interest charges are added to your total balance, so the next month, your interest is based on the new higher amount (including interest). If you fail to pay more than the minimum, you may be unable to catch up with the increasing balance caused by compounding interestâespecially if you have a high balance and interest rate. How to Maximize Credit Card Benefits Here are some ways to make the most of perks offered by many credit cards. Fraud protection: Credit cards offer superior fraud protection to debit cards, making them ideal for online purchases and in cases of a data breach or identity theft. If someone uses your debit card, your checking account could be depleted and you may only get reimbursed up to a certain amount if you don't report it quickly enough. Conversely, if a thief steals your credit card number and makes purchases, it's on credit; they didn't siphon money from a bank account. Most credit card issuers offer zero liability fraud protection, meaning you owe nothing and they handle fraud. - Rewards: Those with solid credit might qualify for rewards credit cards, which come in a few varieties. Cash back cards return a percentage of the money you charge as a rebate, usually 1% to 2% of each purchase and sometimes more for bonus categories. Point-based cards accrue points you can redeem for things such as airfare, products, services and gift cards. Depending on the rewards card, you may get additional perks, such as concierge services, waived checked baggage fees, free entry into airport lounges and extra insurance products. Keep in mind that the better the benefits, the more demanding the card's qualification requirements are likely to be. Rewards cards can be advantageous if you use them for planned purchases and pay them off right away. - Introductory bonuses: Many rewards cards offer tempting welcome bonuses of cash, points or miles that you can earn after meeting the minimum spend. The bonus is often generousâsometimes enough for a one-way plane ticketâbut it typically requires spending a minimum amount on the card within the first few months of opening the account. Don't go into debt just for the rewards, however. Instead, time your big purchases to coincide with a reward, and make sure you've saved up for it first and can pay it off right away. - Intro 0% APR periods: Some credit card issuers incentivize applicants by offering a 0% intro APR period for a limited time, often 12 to 21 months. You can use these cards to transfer a high-interest debt balance or make a large purchase that you ideally pay off without owing interest. Read the fine print carefully,
