---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/3-steps-to-take-if-your-social-security-number-has-been-stolen/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:08.073853+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:50 GMT
---
What to Do if Your Social Security Number Is Stolen Quick Answer Take the following steps if your Social Security number is stolen: Scam artists are always looking for ways to capture your personal information. If your Social Security number (SSN) has been stolen, you'll want to act quickly to protect your financial health. Reporting the theft to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), and possibly the police, is often the first step in setting things right. The FTC can provide you with a game plan for undoing any damageâand preventing more financial headaches going forward. 1. Report the Identity Theft to the FTC and Police Once someone has their hands on your Social Security number, they can use it in all sorts of fraudulent ways. That might include: Filing a tax return in your name and collecting your refund - Applying for unemployment payments or government benefits in your name - Using your Social Security number and other personal data to apply for credit and rack up debt - How to Report Identity Theft to the FTC If you find out your Social Security number has been stolen, or exposed in a data breach, the first thing to do is report it to the FTC. You can do that at IdentityTheft.gov. The FTC will use the information you provide to create a personal recovery plan. Consider this your roadmap to getting on the other side of identity theft. When to Notify the Police You can also file a police report. If you take this route, bring along a copy of your FTC Identity Theft Report, a government-issued photo ID, proof of address and any evidence you have of theft. Reporting it to the police might make sense if you know who committed the identity fraud and can provide helpful information to law enforcement. It can also help clear your name if your identity was used fraudulently in an encounter with the police. 2. Request a Credit Freeze or Fraud Alert Protecting your credit is always important, but even more so if your Social Security number has been stolen. You have the right to take one or both of two specific steps to do this: Set up a credit freeze. This restricts access to your credit report. So if a scam artist tries to open a new account in your name, the lender or credit card company won't be able to process the application. A credit freeze will not affect your credit score, but you'll need to set it up with each individual credit bureau (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax). You can freeze and unfreeze your credit report at any time. - Initiate a fraud alert. Instead of restricting access to your credit report, a fraud alert requires creditors to verify your identity before approving new accounts in your name. That extra step can block fraudsters from getting approved. - Having said that, here's how to freeze your credit with each of the three credit bureaus: Online | Phone | ---|---| Experian | Credit freeze instructions | Check your credit report and call the number listed on it | Experian Security FreezeP.O. Box 9554 Allen, TX 75013 | ---|---|---|---| TransUnion | Credit freeze instructions | 800-916-8800 | TransUnionP.O. Box 160 Woodlyn, PA 19094 | ---|---|---|---| Equifax | Credit freeze instructions | 888-298-0045 | Equifax Information Services LLCP.O. Box 105788 Atlanta, GA 30348-5788 | ---|---|---|---| To place a fraud alert with Experian, simply visit the Experian Fraud Alert Center, select the type of alert you need, then specify how long you want it to last. An initial fraud alert will last for one year unless you renew it. An extended fraud alert, which is designed for victims of identity fraud, lasts seven years. You can remove a fraud alert at any time. 3. Contact Companies Where Your Social Security Number Has Been Used
