---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/i-dont-have-a-job-how-can-i-get-a-loan/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:58.196955+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:52 GMT
---
money and should only be used for short-term emergencies. Learn more: Alternatives to Credit Card Cash Advances Loan From Friends or Family Getting help from loved ones can help you access funds quickly without interest rates and with more flexible repayment terms. Borrowing from friends or family can strain your relationships, so having terms in writing can lower the risk of misunderstandings. Disaster Assistance Loan If you live in a federally declared disaster area and need the funds to recover, you may be eligible for a disaster loan from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). These loans often have lower interest rates and longer repayment terms compared to traditional personal loans. Personal loan calculator Frequently Asked Questions The Bottom Line It's possible to get a loan without a job, but getting approved depends on your other income sources, current debt payments and the lender. Applying with a cosigner or offering collateral can improve your chances of getting approved. Without traditional employment, your credit score may play a bigger role in your loan approval. Before applying, check your FICOÂ® ScoreÎ for free from Experian before applying to see where you stand and gauge your approval odds. If your credit score isn't in the best shape, focus on loans that cater to your credit needs or consider exploring other options. Need a personal loan? Whether you're looking to eliminate debt or access cash fast, compare personal loan offers matched to your credit profile. Start now for freeAbout the author LaToya Irby is a personal finance writer who works with consumer media outlets to help people navigate their money and credit. Sheâs been published and quoted extensively in USA Today, U.S. News and World Report, myFICO, Investopedia, The Balance and more. Read more from LaToya
