---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-many-credit-cards-should-i-have/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:43.454429+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:37 GMT
---
hefty welcome bonus and great rewards, those benefits might not be worth the added complexity to your financial situation. You may also not be interested in keeping track of the value you get from each card to ensure it's worth its annual fee. So, even if you're a disciplined spender and have good organizational skills, you may simply prefer the simplicity of maintaining fewer credit cards. Tips for Responsibly Managing Multiple Credit Cards If you're thinking about using more than one credit card, here are some steps you can take to manage them responsibly and stay organized: Set up automatic payments. Consider setting up automatic payments for the full amount due each month. That way, you never have to worry about a late payment or interest charges. Just make sure you have a buffer in your checking account to avoid potential overdrafts and returned payments. - Create account alerts. If you don't want to set up autopay on your accounts, check to see if your card issuers offer balance and due date alerts. This can be particularly beneficial if your income is irregular or you're self-employed. - Change your due dates. Many credit card issuers allow you to change your due date to align with payday or another date that works with your cash flow situation. If you have due dates throughout the month, aligning them all on the same day can make the payment process go more smoothly. - Spend within your means. Regardless of how many credit cards you use, make it a priority to avoid credit card debt. If you don't already have one, create a budget and set spending goals each month. Then, track your expenses to ensure that you don't spend more than you earn. - Use a budgeting app. Many budgeting apps have a feature that imports transactions from all of your financial accounts into one place. This can make it easier to keep track of your everyday spending and make sure it aligns with your budget. - Shop Around to Find Your Next Credit Card If you're thinking about getting a new credit card, it's important to shop around and compare several credit card options to ensure you find the right one based on your credit profile. If the credit cards you want are out of reach, take some time to address the risk factors in your credit. Free credit monitoring through Experian can help you keep an eye on your credit as you take strides toward improving it. Donât apply blindly Apply for credit cards confidently with personalized offers based on your credit profile. Get started with your FICOÂ® Score for free. See your offersAbout the author Ben Luthi has worked in financial planning, banking and auto finance, and writes about all aspects of money. His work has appeared in Time, Success, USA Today, Credit Karma, NerdWallet, Wirecutter and more. Read more from Ben
