---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/011315/whats-average-salary-actuary.asp
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:06.831183+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Table of Contents Expand Table of Contents States With the Highest Pay Job Outlook Where the Jobs Are What's the Average Salary of an Actuary? By The Investopedia Team Full Bio Investopedia contributors come from a range of backgrounds, and over 25 years there have been thousands of expert writers and editors who have contributed. Learn about our editorial policies Updated January 20, 2026 Reviewed by Amy Soricelli Reviewed by Amy Soricelli Full Bio Amy Soricelli has over 40 years working with job candidates and has honed the art of the job search in all areas. She offers one-on-one session interview preparation skills or constructs resumes for job seekers. She conducts workshops and seminars on all aspects of the job search and is a consistent contributor to HBCU Career Connection. Learn about our Financial Review Board Fact checked by Vikki Velasquez Fact checked by Vikki Velasquez Full Bio Vikki Velasquez is a researcher and writer who has managed, coordinated, and directed various community and nonprofit organizations. She has conducted in-depth research on social and economic issues and has also revised and edited educational materials for the Greater Richmond area. Learn about our editorial policies Close Key Takeaways An actuary is a financial specialist who analyzes statistical data so as to forecast risk and liability.Actuarial science is a small, specialized field currently employing around 33,600 people in the United States.Job growth forecasts are strong, with the field expected to increase by 22% over the ten-year period of 2024 to 2034.According to the U.S. government, the median annual pay for an actuary was $125,770, or roughly $60.47 per hour, as of May 2023, the most recently available data. According to data reported by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the median annual pay of an actuary—an individual who analyzes statistical data for the purpose of forecasting risk and liability—was $125,770 as of May 2024, the most recently available data. This breaks down to an average compensation of $60.47 per hour per hour. The typical actuary works full-time in an office for a particular employer, but some work as consultants, traveling frequently to meet with clients. Actuaries working with insurance brokerages and financial institutions earned $126,830, whereas those working for general companies earned $133,030. States With the Highest Pay The yearly salary of an actuary also varies by state. The top five payers in 2023 were New York ($160,770), Connecticut ($151,350), Kansas ($146,610), the District of Columbia ($145,550), and Virginia ($145,040). Best-Paying States for Actuaries State Average Actuary Salary (2023) New York $160,770 Connecticut $151,350 Kansas $146,610 District of Columbia $145,550 Virginia $145,040 Not surprisingly, actuaries working in metropolitan areas earned more than those employed in non-metropolitan areas. 22% The pace of job growth in the actuary field is forecast over the ten-year period between 2024 and 2034. Job Outlook Actuaries are essential to the insurance industry, and thus the job outlook for actuaries is very promising, with employment growth of 22% expected between 2024 and 2034, according to the most recent data. This is much more rapid than the average growth for all careers and is estimated to result in roughly 2,400 new jobs over the 10-year period. Overall, however, this is a relatively small field, with only 33,600 actuaries employed as of 2024. In order to become an actuary, an individual must have a bachelor's degree in actuarial science or some other related field and must pass a series of exams to become certified in the field. Actuaries need a strong background in math, statistics, and business. Salary and job outlook are partly determined by the amount of training and certificates an applicant has, but also by the location of the job and the specific industry that is hiring. Important The metropolitan areas with the highest level of employment for actuaries are New York-Newark-Jersey City, in areas spanning NY, NJ,
