---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/enforcement/actions/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:29.579381+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
When we take an enforcement action against an entity or person we believe has violated the law, we will post court documents and other related materials here. The Bureau may enforce the law by filing an action in federal district court or by initiating an administrative adjudication proceeding. Administrative proceedings are conducted by an Administrative Law Judge, who holds hearings and issues a recommended decision. Proceedings are conducted in accordance with the Rules of Practice for Adjudication Proceedings. On January 17, 2025, the Bureau filed a complaint and proposed consent order to resolve allegations against Draper & Kramer Mortgage Corporation (Draper), a non-depository mortgage lender based in Downers Grove, Illinois. On January 16, 2025, the Bureau issued an order against Block, Inc. (Block), a nonbank headquartered in Oakland, California which operates Cash App, a mobile payments application through which consumers can send and receive money through peer-to-peer transfers. On December 23, 2024, the Bureau filed a lawsuit against Rocket Homes Real Estate, LLC, doing business as Rocket Homes, JMG Holding Partners LLC, doing business as The Jason Mitchell Group, 45 of its affiliates (collectively, The Mitchell Group), and Jason Mitchell, the majority owner and Chief Executive Officer of The Mitchell Group. On December 20, 2024, the Bureau filed a lawsuit against Early Warning Services, LLC (EWS), Bank of America, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., claiming they failed to safeguard the Zelle network from fraud and other defects, which resulted in hundreds of millions of dollars in consumer losses. On December 9, 2024, the Bureau issued an order against Performant Recovery, Inc., to address its unlawful collection activities involving student-loan borrowers who were attempting to bring their student loans out of default. On December 6, 2024, the Bureau filed a complaint against Comerica Bank. Comerica is a Texas banking association headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and is a subsidiary of Comerica Incorporated, one of the largest banking associations in the country. On November 14, 2024, the Bureau issued an order against Global Tel Link Corporation, d/b/a ViaPath Technologies, and its subsidiaries Telmate, LLC, d/b/a ViaPath Technologies, and TouchPay Holdings, LLC, d/b/a GTL Financial Services. On October 17, 2024, the Bureau filed a lawsuit against Climb Credit, Inc.; its wholly owned subsidiary Climb Investco, LLC; its wholly owned sub-subsidiary Climb GS Loan Fund 2018-1, LLC; and the originators, initial owners, and initial operators of these entities, 1/0 Holdco LLC and 1/0 Capital LLC. On October 15, 2024, the Bureau, together with the United States Department of Justice, filed a complaint and proposed consent order to resolve their allegations against Fairway Independent Mortgage Corporation. On August 29, 2024, the Bureau issued an order against New Day Financial, LLC (NewDay USA), a nonbank direct mortgage lender headquartered in West Palm Beach, Florida, specializing in offering refinance mortgage loans guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs.
