---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-identity-theft/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:27.402047+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:23 GMT
---
Data breaches: A data breach happens when someone gains access to an organization's consumer data without authorization. The most common types of information stolen in data breaches include full names, Social Security numbers and credit card numbers. - Unsecure browsing: For the most part, you can browse the internet safely, especially if you stick to well-known websites. But if you share any information on an unsecure website or a website that's been compromised by hackers, you could be putting your sensitive information directly in the hands of a thief. - Dark web marketplaces: The dark web is a hidden network of websites that aren't accessible by normal browsers. People who visit the dark web use special software to mask their identities and activity, making it a haven for fraudsters. Hackers may steal your information and sell it on the dark web rather than using it for themselves. - Malware: Malware is malicious software that's designed to wreak all sorts of havoc. Fraudsters may use malware to steal your data or spy on your computer activity without you knowing. - Credit card theft: If a thief can gain access to your credit card information, they can use it to make unauthorized purchases. Common ways credit card theft occurs are through data breaches, physical theft, credit card skimmers and online retail accounts where card information is stored. - Mail theft: Since long before the internet, identity thieves have been combing through the mail to find documents that hold personal information. Bank and credit card statements and any other document you send or receive through the postal system can be intercepted and used to gain access to your data. - Phishing and spam attacks: Some scammers use email, text messages and other forms of electronic communication to steal your sensitive information. The phishing message often looks like it's coming from a reputable source and asks victims to open a malware-infected attachment or to visit a spoof website and give up one or more types of information. - Wi-Fi hacking: If you use your computer or phone on a public networkâairport, department store or coffee shop Wi-Fi, for exampleâhackers may be able to eavesdrop on your connection. If you type in a password, bank account or credit card number, Social Security number or anything else, an eavesdropper can easily intercept it and use it for their own purposes. - Mobile phone theft: Smartphones are a treasure trove of information for identity thieves, especially if your apps allow you to log in without a passcode or biometric authorization. If someone manages to steal and unlock your phone, it could allow them to view the information found in your apps, as well as in your emails, text messages, notes and more. - Learn more: 10 Warning Signs of Identity Theft How Do I Know if My Identity Has Been Stolen? Depending on the type of identity theft, there may or may not be immediate or blatant signs that you've been victimized. That said, here are some common indicators of potential identity theft: Credit card charges or bank account withdrawals you don't recognize - An unfamiliar credit account on your credit reports - Bills for an account you didn't open - Collection calls for a debt you don't owe - Recent credit inquiries when you haven't recently applied for credit - A sudden drop in your credit score - Unfamiliar medical bills or explanation of benefits letters - Expected mail goes missing - Duplicate return alert when filing your tax return - Learn more: How to Check for Identity Theft How Identity Theft Can Affect You There are several different ways identity theft can impact your credit and financial situation, and in some cases, the ramifications can be severe. Here are just a few examples. Actions Identity Thieves Take | How It Affects You | ---|---| Open
