---
source_url: https://www.usa.gov/accessibility-policy
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:31.477786+00:00
last_updated: Sat, 07 Feb 2026 01:13:44 GMT
---
USA.gov accessibility policy Learn about USA.gov's commitment to accessibility and find tools to help you access government information and services. How USA.gov manages accessibility Read the accessibility statement from USA.gov's parent agency, the General Services Administration. USA.gov strives to make our website as accessible and usable as possible. We do this by following Section 508 and the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG 2.1) produced by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C, the web's governing body). Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 794d), as amended in 1998, is a federal law that requires government agencies to provide people with disabilities equal access to electronic information and data comparable to those who do not have disabilities. WCAG is a set of checkpoints and guidelines that help ensure that websites are designed and written properly. For example: We aim for A and AA compliance across our site. We also look for opportunities to meet AAA compliance. Report a problem If you have a problem using our site, you can report the issue to us online, or by calling us at 1-844-872-4681. We will try to fix the issue, and we'll attempt to provide the information you're seeking in a format accessible to you. Where to find accessibility tools If you have any type of disability, we recommend that you visit the FCC Accessibility Clearinghouse and the Access Board website. You'll find expert advice such as alternative screen readers, screen magnifiers and other devices that can make using a computer easier and more enjoyable. We also recommend that you visit AbilityNet's My Computer My Way, which provides advice on making your computer accessible. LAST UPDATED: July 8, 2024 Have a question? Ask a real person any government-related question for free. They will get you the answer or let you know where to find it.
