---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/consumer-tools/prepaid-cards/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:09.371692+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Prepaid cards and other prepaid accounts If you’re considering getting a prepaid card or account, we have information that can help you choose the right one for you and better understand your rights. English - Español - Shop for the best prepaid card for you Learn about the CFPB’s prepaid rule and fee disclosures to help you shop for a card. Be sure to register your card to get important protections. Get started Basics Choose the right card for your situation Not all prepaid cards are the same. Each card has its own set of terms and fees. Understand card fees Most prepaid cards charge fees to do things like maintain your account, make purchases or withdraw money. There are other fees as well. Choose how to get paid You have a choice of how to receive your wages or salary and how to receive payment of some kinds of government benefits. Best practices and leading research for helping others with money questions Watch our short video about consumer rights when buying and using prepaid cards - Browse our database of consumer complaints on prepaid cards - Understand your situation Know your rights Did you know that you can get your money back if your card or funds are lost or stolen? And did you know that your employer can’t force you to use a payroll card to receive your wages? Take action Submit a complaint Having trouble with a financial product or service? If you've already tried reaching out to the company and still have an issue, you can submit a complaint. Tell us about your issue—we'll forward it to the company and work to get you a response, generally within 15 days. Page last modified @
