---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-long-does-a-credit-card-balance-transfer-take/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:42.219273+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:36 GMT
---
How Long Does a Balance Transfer Take? Quick Answer A balance transfer can take anywhere from a few days to several weeks, depending on the credit card company, but they're typically done within five to seven days. Knowing what to expect can help you ensure that you stay caught up on payments. A credit card balance transfer typically takes about five to seven days, depending on the card issuer, but some financial institutions ask customers to allow up to six weeks to complete the transaction. If you're considering getting a new balance transfer credit card and want to make sure you know how long the transfer will take as well as whether you should even make a transfer in the first place, read on. What Is a Balance Transfer? A balance transfer generally involves moving a balance from one credit card to another, usually to take advantage of a lower interest rate or even an introductory 0% APR promotion. Credit card companies don't all approach balance transfers the same way, though. Some companies complete balance transfers electronically, while others issue balance transfer checks that are tied to your account. Some credit card issuers may even allow you to transfer your balance from other types of debt, such as personal loans or auto loans. Balance transfers are a common debt consolidation strategy and could help you save a significant amount of money in interest. With or without an introductory rate, however, card issuers usually charge a fee of 3% or 5% of the transaction amount. For example, if you have a $5,000 balance on a card with a 20% interest rate, and you were to transfer it to a card with a 0% APR promotion for 18 months and a 3% transfer fee, you could pay off the balance interest-free, including the $150 fee, during the 0% APR period with a monthly payment of roughly $286. In contrast, if you were to put that payment toward your current card, it'd take you 21 months to pay it off, and you'd pay about $960 in interest. How Long Does a Balance Transfer Take? Many credit card companies will state how long the balance transfer process takes on their website. If the information is not available online, you can call your card issuer's customer service department. Here's what to expect based on the card to which you're transferring a balance. Average Length of Time for a Balance Transfer | ---| American Express | Typically five to seven days, but can take up to six weeks in certain circumstances | ---|---| Bank of America | Typically two to 14 days | ---|---| Barclays | Up to four weeks | ---|---| Capital One | Typically three to 14 days | ---|---| Chase | Up to 21 days | ---|---| Discover | Typically four days but newly opened cards take 14 days before a balance transfer will begin processing | ---|---| U.S. Bank | Up to 14 days | ---|---| Wells Fargo | Up to 14 days | ---|---| When Does It Make Sense to Complete a Balance Transfer? A balance transfer can be a great way to consolidate high-interest credit card debt, but it's not for everyone. Here are some situations where it might make sense: You have good credit and can qualify for a 0% intro APR balance transfer promotion. - The card you're transferring to has a much lower APR. - You have a plan to pay off the full balanceâor at least a large chunk of itâbefore the 0% APR promotional period ends. - You don't plan to add more credit card debt while you're paying down your balance. - You're developing good credit habits, so you can avoid falling back into debt in the future. - On the flip side, it might not make sense to do a balance transfer in
