---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/pros-and-cons-of-debt-consolidation/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:32.938488+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:58 GMT
---
collection accounts that have been paid in full, so consolidating a debt in collections could potentially increase your score. Tip: It may be possible to qualify for a debt consolidation loan if you have past-due payments. That said, you may qualify for better terms if you bring your accounts current and give your credit some time to improve before you shop around for a new loan. You Can Pay Off Debt Faster Minimizing the interest you pay on your debt not only saves you money but also shortens your timeline for becoming debt-free (assuming you don't add debt elsewhere). The sooner you can eliminate your debt, the sooner you'll free up money for other important financial goals. You Can Build Credit With On-Time Payments Your payment history is the most influential factor in your credit score, and if you can qualify for more affordable payments, it can be easier to build a positive credit history with debt consolidation. Even if you haven't been struggling to keep up with payments, paying your new loan or credit card on time can help bolster your credit history over time. Learn more: How Debt Consolidation Can Improve Your Credit Drawbacks of Debt Consolidation While there are some clear benefits to consolidating debt, there are also some potential downsides to consider before you move forward. Here are some cons of debt consolidation to keep in mind. There May Be Upfront Fees A lower interest rate won't always save you money in the long run. You may have to pay an upfront origination fee to take out a new loan, and many credit cards charge balance transfer fees. These fees are generally a percentage of the amount you borrow, and the fee could be taken out of the funds you receive or added to your account's balance. Origination fees, for example, tend to be 1% to 6% of your total loan amount; balance transfer fees are often 3% to 5% of the amount you're transferring. You'll want to calculate how much the fee will be and compare it to your potential savings to see if debt consolidation makes financial sense. You Might Not Qualify for a Favorable Offer Your creditworthiness can affect your approval odds for a new loan or credit card, along with the loan amount, credit limit, interest rate and fees. If you have poor creditâfor example, you have past-due accounts or debt in collectionsâyou might not be able to get a debt consolidation loan or balance transfer credit card that offers significant savings opportunities. If you're in this position, you still have options. In particular, you could look into debt consolidation via a debt management plan from a nonprofit credit counselor, which can help reduce your interest rates and monthly payments and bring past-due accounts current. Learn more: The Difference Between Debt Consolidation Loans and Debt Management Programs Freeing Up Available Credit Could Lead to More Debt Consolidating your credit card debt is a good way to save moneyâas long as you won't be tempted to run up those balances again once the cards are paid off. If you do, you could end up in a worse situation than before you consolidated your debts. If you tend to overspend, you can reduce the risk of using your cards again by removing them from your wallet and any online sites where you store your card numbers. Reducing access to your cards is usually better than closing your accounts, since that can have a negative effect on your credit scores. Your Credit Could Suffer if You Miss Payments In some instances, consolidating debt can increase your monthly payment instead of lower it. This is particularly true if you're currently paying just the minimum amount due on your credit cards. If your new monthly payment is unaffordable, missing even a single one by 30 days can
