---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/does-checking-your-credit-score-lower-it/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:14.063178+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:26 GMT
---
Does Checking My Credit Lower My Score? Quick Answer No, checking your credit score does not lower it. When you check your credit score, itâs considered a soft inquiry that wonât affect your credit score. Anytime your credit is checked, an inquiry is noted on your credit report. Depending on who is checking your credit and why it's being checked, this inquiry will be classified as either a soft inquiry or hard inquiry. Soft inquiries don't affect your credit scores, but hard inquiries can. Checking your own credit score is considered a soft inquiry and won't affect your credit scores. There are other types of soft inquiries that also don't affect your credit scores, and several types of hard inquiries that might. Here's what you need to know about soft and hard inquiries and why checking your credit score regularly is a good idea. What Is a Soft Inquiry? A soft inquiry, sometimes referred to as a soft credit check, can occur for a few reasons, including when: You check your own credit score - An employer or landlord runs a credit check with your permission - A lender runs a credit check to preapprove or prequalify you for an offer - Soft inquiries don't have an impact on your credit scores because you're not officially applying for credit. So when you fill out a form to get prequalified for a mortgage, student loan, personal loan or credit card, there are no strings attached. Once you take the next step and apply, however, the lender will make a hard inquiry, which will show up on your credit report for others to see and can temporarily lower your credit score. What Can Lower Your Credit Score? While checking your own credit score won't change it, there are plenty of other things that can affect your credit score negatively. Here's a quick breakdown of each factor that influences your FICOÂ® ScoreÎ through Experian: Payment history: As long as you make your debt payments on time every month, your payment history, which is the most influential factor in your FICOÂ® Score, will be in good shape. But if one of your payments is 30 days late or more, your credit score can go down. The longer your account is delinquent, the more it can hurt your score. Defaulting on the account can cause severe damage. - Amounts owed: Your total debt burden is a factor here, but your credit utilization ratio is more important. Your utilization ratio shows how much of your credit card limits you're using at any given time. If you have a $500 balance on a card with a $1,000 limit, for example, your utilization rate is 50%. A utilization rate above 30% will start to hurt your scores, and the lower your rate, the better. Those with the best credit scores tend to have a utilization rate in the low single digits. - Length of credit history: A longer credit history is better for your credit scores. This factor also includes another calculation called the average age of accounts. So even if you've been using credit for, say, 10 years, the average age of your accounts could be much lower, especially if you've recently opened several new accounts. To avoid lowering your average, try to avoid taking on new credit too often. - Credit mix: The more types of credit you haveâcredit cards, personal loans, student loans, auto loans and mortgage loansâthe better it can be for your credit. While having just one or two won't necessarily lower your credit score, it could limit your credit potential. - New credit: Virtually every time you apply for credit, the lender runs a hard inquiry on your credit report. According to FICO, each new hard inquiry can lower your credit score by as much as five points. If you have multiple
