---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
identity theft. If a consumer submits an identity theft report to a person who furnishes information to a consumer reporting agency at the address specified by that person for receiving such reports stating that information maintained by such person that purports to relate to 92§ 623 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2 the consumer resulted from identity theft, the person may not furnish such information that purports to relate to the consumer to any consumer reporting agency, unless the person subsequently knows or is informed by the consumer that the information is correct. (7) Negative Information (A) Notice to Consumer Required (i) In general. If any financial institution that extends credit and regularly and in the ordinary course of business furnishes information to a consumer reporting agency described in section 603(p) furnishes negative information to such an agency regarding credit extended to a customer, the financial institution shall provide a notice of such furnishing of negative information, in writing, to the customer. (ii) Notice effective for subsequent submissions. After providing such notice, the financial institution may submit additional negative information to a consumer reporting agency described in section 603(p) with respect to the same transaction, extension of credit, account, or customer without providing additional notice to the customer. (B) Time of Notice (i) In general. The notice required under subparagraph (A) shall be provided to the customer prior to, or no later than 30 days after, furnishing the negative information to a consumer reporting agency described in section 603(p). (ii) Coordination with new account disclosures . If the notice is provided to the customer prior to furnishing the negative information to a consumer reporting agency, the notice may not be included in the initial disclosures provided under section 127(a) of the Truth in Lending Act. (C) Coordination with other disclosures. The notice required under subparagraph (A) – (i) may be included on or with any notice of default, any billing statement, or any other materials provided to the customer; and (ii) must be clear and conspicuous. See also 12 CFR Part 1022, App B § 623 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2 93 (D) Model Disclosure (i) Duty of Bureau . The Bureau shall prescribe a brief model disclosure that a financial institution may use to comply with subparagraph (A), which shall not exceed 30 words. (ii) Use of model not required. No provision of this paragraph may be construed to require a financial institution to use any such model form prescribed by the Bureau. (iii) Compliance using model. A financial institution shall be deemed to be in compliance with subparagraph (A) if the financial institution uses any model form prescribed by the Bureau under this subparagraph, or the financial institution uses any such model form and rearranges its format. (E) Use of notice without submitting negative information. No provision of this paragraph shall be construed as requiring a financial institution that has provided a customer with a notice described in subparagraph (A) to furnish negative information about the customer to a consumer reporting agency. (F) Safe harbor. A financial institution shall not be liable for failure to perform the duties required by this paragraph if, at the time of the failure, the financial institution maintained reasonable policies and procedures to comply with this paragraph or the financial institution reasonably believed that the institution is prohibited, by law, from contacting the consumer. (G) Definitions. For purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions shall apply: (i) The term “negative information” means information concerning a customer’s delinquencies, late payments, insolvency, or any form of default. (ii) The terms “customer” and “financial institution” have the same meanings as in section 509 Public Law 106-102. (8) Ability of Consumer to Dispute Information Directly with Furnisher See also 12 CFR Part 1022.43, 16 CFR Part 660.4, 74 Fed. Reg. 31484 (07/01/09) (A) In general. The Bureau, in
