---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/help/fraud-alert/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:06.889741+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 21:35:42 GMT
---
disclosures under other provisions of the FCRA. SeeÂ www.consumerfinance.gov/learnmore. You have the right to obtain documents relating to fraudulent transactions made or accounts opened using your personal information.Â A creditor or other business must give you copies of applications and other business records relating to transactions and accounts that resulted from the theft of your identity, if you ask for them in writing. A business may ask you for proof of your identity, a police report, and an affidavit before giving you the documents. It may also specify an address for you to send your request. Under certain circumstances a business can refuse to provide you with these documents. SeeÂ www.consumerfinance.gov/learnmore. You have the right to obtain information from a debt collector.Â If you ask, a debt collector must provide you with certain information about the debt you believe was incurred in your name by an identity thief â like the name of the creditor and the amount of the debt. If you believe information in your file results from identity theft, you have the right to ask that a consumer reporting agency block that information from your file.Â An identity thief may run up bills in your name and not pay them. Information about the unpaid bills may appear on your consumer report. Should you decide to ask a consumer reporting agency to block the reporting of this information, you must identify the information to block, and provide the consumer reporting agency with proof of your identity and a copy of yourÂ identity theft report. The consumer reporting agency can refuse or cancel your request for a block if, for example, you donât provide the necessary documentation, or where the block results from an error or a material misrepresentation of fact made by you. If the agency declines or rescinds the block, it must notify you. Once a debt resulting from identity theft has been blocked, a person or business with notice of the block may not sell, transfer, or place the debt for collection. You also may prevent businesses from reporting information about you to consumer reporting agencies if you believe the information is a result of identity theft.Â To do so, you must send your request to the address specified by the business that reports the information to the consumer reporting agency. The business will expect you to identify what information you do not want reported and to provide anÂ identity theft report. The following FCRA right applies with respect to nationwide consumer reporting agencies: CONSUMERS HAVE THE RIGHT TO OBTAIN A SECURITY FREEZE You have a right to place a âsecurity freezeâ on your credit report, which will prohibit a consumer reporting agency from releasing information in your credit report without your express authorization.Â The security freeze is designed to prevent credit, loans, and services from being approved in your name without your consent. However, you should be aware that using a security freeze to take control over who gets access to the personal and financial information in your credit report may delay, interfere with, or prohibit the timely approval of any subsequent request or application you make regarding a new loan, credit, mortgage, or any other account involving the extension of credit. As an alternative to a security freeze, you have the right to place an initial or extended fraud alert on your credit file at no cost. An initial fraud alert is a 1-year alert that is placed on a consumerâs credit file. Upon seeing a fraud alert display on a consumerâs credit file, a business is required to take steps to verify the consumerâs identity before extending new credit. If you are a victim of identity theft, you are entitled to an extended fraud alert, which is a fraud alert lasting 7 years. A security freeze does not apply to a person or
