---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/bankruptcy-how-it-works-types-and-consequences/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:24.695237+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
will depend on your income level. However, you will need to complete certain other requirements before you file. Key Bankruptcy Terms to Know Throughout the bankruptcy process, you'll likely come across some legal terms that may not be familiar to you. Here are some of the most common and important ones to know: 341 meeting: Also known as the meeting of creditors, you'll be questioned under oath by your creditors or the trustee about your financial situation. - Credit counseling: Before you can file for bankruptcy, you'll need to undergo individual or group credit counseling. You'll also be required to take a personal finance management course before your bankruptcy can be discharged. However, there are situations where one or both requirements can be waived. - Discharge: When bankruptcy proceedings are complete, the bankruptcy is considered discharged. At this point, any remaining debt you haven't paid is canceled, and your creditors can no longer pursue payment. - Exempt property: Although Chapter 7 bankruptcy requires you to sell assets to repay creditors, some types of property may be exempt from sale. State law determines what a debtor may be allowed to keep, but generally, items like work tools, a personal vehicle or equity in a primary residence may be exempted. - Lien: A legal right for a creditor to hold and sell a debtor's property as security or repayment of a debt. - Liquidation: The sale of a debtor's non-exempt property, the proceeds of which are then used to pay creditors listed in the bankruptcy. - Means test: The Bankruptcy Code requires people who want to file Chapter 7 bankruptcy to demonstrate that they do not have the means to repay their debts. The requirement is intended to curtail abuse of the bankruptcy code. The test takes into account information such as income, assets, expenses and unsecured debt. If a debtor fails to pass the means test, their Chapter 7 bankruptcy may either be dismissed or converted into a Chapter 13 proceeding. - Reaffirmation agreement: Under Chapter 7 bankruptcy, you may agree to continue paying a debt that could be discharged in the proceedings. Reaffirming the debt창and your commitment to pay it창is usually done to allow a debtor to keep a piece of collateral, such as a car, that would otherwise be seized as part of the bankruptcy proceedings. - Secured debt: Debt backed by property, such as a home or vehicle, which acts as collateral. Creditors of secured debt have the right to seize the collateral if you default on the loan. - Trustee: An individual or corporation appointed by the bankruptcy court to act on behalf of the creditors. A trustee is responsible for reviewing your petition and schedule and bringing action against you or your creditors to resolve the matter. Under Chapter 7 bankruptcy, the trustee will liquidate your non-exempt assets and distribute the proceeds to your creditors. In Chapter 13 filings, the trustee also oversees the debtor's repayment plan, receives payments from the debtor and disburses the money to creditors. - Unsecured debt: A debt for which the creditor holds no tangible collateral, such as credit cards. - Debt That Can't Be Forgiven in Bankruptcy While bankruptcy can eliminate a lot of debt, it can't wipe the slate completely clean if you have certain types of unforgivable debt. Types of debt that bankruptcy can't eliminate include: Court-ordered alimony - Court-ordered child support - Reaffirmed debt - A federal tax lien for taxes owed to the U.S. government - Government fines, penalties or benefit overpayments - Court fines and penalties - Debt for personal injury caused while intoxicated - Debt for willful and malicious injuries to a person or property - Debt owed to certain tax-advantaged retirement plans - Debt for certain condominium or cooperative housing fees - Historically, it's been difficult창though not impossible창to discharge student loans in bankruptcy.
