---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-personal-loans-8761582
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:29.905651+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Not Disclosed This lender does not disclose its minimum credit score requirements. Loan Amount $2,000 - $30,000 See Details Check Rates Best for Small Loan Amounts APR Range 9.99% - 18.00% Recommended Minimum Credit Score 650 This lender does not disclose its minimum credit score requirements. Loan Amount $250 - $25,000 See Details Check Rates Best for Military Members APR Range 8.74% - 18.00% Recommended Minimum Credit Score Not Disclosed This lender does not disclose its minimum credit score requirements. Loan Amount $250 - $50,000 See Details Check Rates Best Credit Union APR Range 9.30% - 17.90% Recommended Minimum Credit Score 640 This lender does not disclose its minimum credit score requirements. Loan Amount $300 - $100,000 See Details Check Rates Best Overall, Best for Large Loan Amounts : LightStream Investopedia's Rating 4.8 out of 5 stars APR Range: 6.49% - 24.89% Loan Amount: $5,000 - $100,000 Loan Terms: 24 months - 240 months Check Rates (opens in a new tab) On Investopedia Why We Chose It LightStream makes our list twice, as Best Overall and Best for Large Loan Amounts. It hit the sweet spot in our scoring rubric: low APRs, a wide range of loan amounts, and a very wide range of repayment options. If you need a large sum, for a home improvement or a boat, LightStream lends up to $100,000. You’ll have up to 20 years to repay for specific loan uses (like home improvements). Pros & Cons Pros Low APRs No fees Loan amounts up to $100,000 Loan terms up to 240 months (20 years) Same-day funding Cons High minimum loan amount No pre-qualification Requires good to excellent credit Limited customer support options Overview In our research, LightStream scored well in all the areas that matter most to most borrowers. Its advertised APRs are competitive, and there are no fees, not even for late payments. It offers lengthy repayment terms and loan amounts of up to $100,000. With autopay, you can shave 0.50% of your APR. If you find a better rate on an unsecured loan from another lender, LightStream will beat it by 0.10%. Fund dispersal is fast, as soon as the same day if you accept a loan proposal before 2:30 p.m. ET. You can also delay funding up to 90 days, which can help if you’re planning a home improvement and don’t want to begin repaying a loan before you’ve spent any of it. Although LightStream is our top choice, it has some flaws. The most glaring is the lack of loan pre-qualification, which Investopedia considers an important shopping tool. You’ll have to complete an application to find out your loan details, which means a small hit to your credit score. LightStream’s minimum loan amount of $5,000 may be too high for some borrowers, depending on their needs. LightStream is a solid choice if you have good to excellent credit, but you’ll have to shop elsewhere if you don't. Finally, we also found LightStream’s customer service options lacking, as they are limited to telephone support. LightStream is the online-lending arm of Truist Bank, which was formed by a merger between BB&T and SunTrust Bank in 2019. Truist is headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. Additional Details Minimum Credit Score 680 Origination Fees None Membership Requirement None Available Discounts 0.50% autopay; 0.10% rate beat Read the Full LightStream Personal Loans Review Also Good for Large Loan Amounts : SoFi Investopedia's Rating 4.7 out of 5 stars APR Range: 8.74% - 35.49% Loan Amount: $5,000 - $100,000 Loan Terms: 24 months - 84 months Check Rates (opens in a new tab) On Investopedia Why We Chose It SoFi, a former Best Overall winner in Investopedia’s ranking, offers loans of up to $100,000, highly rated customer service, pre-qualification, and a bevy of SoFi membership benefits. Pros & Cons Pros No late fees Same-day funding available Access
