---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/preventing-fraud/credit-card-fraud-what-to-do-if-you-are-a-victim/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:31.914029+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
and report any theft or unauthorized charges promptly. Zero liability protection supplements federal law that limits your maximum liability for unauthorized charges to $50, provided you report the theft within 60 days. Because credit card fraud is common and often outside your control (in the case of a data breach, for instance), zero liability protection is a good feature to look for when comparing credit cards. Understand that you must pay attention to your account and report suspicious charges or the theft or loss of a card as soon as you're aware of it. What to Do if You're a Victim of Credit Card Fraud Steps to take immediately if you believe you've become a victim of credit card fraud include the following: Notify your lender. As soon as you think your card may have been stolen, or you discover suspicious transactions on your account, notify the card issuer by phone or through the card's phone app or web dashboard. The sooner an issue is reported, the more quickly the card issuer can investigate, and the quicker they can resolve any unauthorized charges. - Lock your accounts. You can use the card lock feature of many credit cards to block new transactions without interfering with recurring payments you may have assigned to the card. This is a good tactic for seldom-used cards, or anytime you think a card is misplaced, but you still expect to get it back. - Lock your credit reports. If you're victimized by credit card fraudsters or notified that your personal information has been exposed in a data breach, you have the right to place a fraud alert, security freeze or credit lock on your credit reports. A fraud alert requires lenders to verify your identity before processing any credit application made in your name. Security freezes and credit locks are functionally equivalent: Both block most credit checks altogether (and must be removed before you can apply for new credit cards or loans). - Set up credit monitoring. Credit monitoring services alert you, via email or text message, when certain new information is posted to your credit reports, including new credit applications, newly established accounts and bills sent to collections. This can help you detect credit card fraud and other forms of identity theft quickly, so you can take action quickly and minimize their impact. - Notify appropriate law enforcement. Credit card fraud is one form of the crime known as identity theft, so reporting it at the FTC's IdentityTheft.gov website is a good starting point. Your card issuer may recommend involving additional authorities. - Notify the credit bureaus as needed. Review your credit reports regularly and, if any suspicious entries appear there, exercise your right to dispute inaccurate credit report information and have fraudulent information removed. It can take days or weeks for lenders to report events to the credit bureaus, so illicit actions taken before you activate a fraud alert, security freeze or credit lock can still turn up afterward. - How to Avoid Credit Card Fraud Adopting these habits can help you avoid becoming a victim of credit card fraud: Safeguard your cards. Keep the cards you use regularly in a secure wallet and avoid lending them out or leaving them out in plain sight (on a restaurant table or bar, for example), where practiced criminals could memorize their details with just a glance. Keep cards you don't use regularly in a spot that's secure, but where you'll notice if they go missing. - Use contactless payments when possible. Systems that let you pay with your smartphone or by tapping with your card are more secure and far less susceptible to skimming than those that require swiping or "dipping" your card. - Guard your PIN. Credit card cash advances often require use of a four-digit PIN, and lack of that code could thwart
