---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-remove-your-information-from-people-search-sites/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:55.345203+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:50 GMT
---
How to Remove Your Information From People Search Sites Quick Answer People search sites collect, buy and sell peopleâs information. Find out if your info is listed on one of these sites and then request its removal. But know that itâs an ongoing process. You might be able to remove your information from people search sites by going to each site and submitting a removal or deletion request. Or, you could look for tools and services that can monitor sites for your information and submit the requests on your behalf. What Are People Search Sites? People search sites are websites that collect, buy and sell information about people, such as someone's age, date of birth, marital status, address, employment history, criminal record and information about family members. Also called people finder websites, they gather information from public records, social media and other data brokers. Depending on the site, you may be able to view this information for free, buy a report on someone or get unlimited access with a paid subscription. There are innocent reasons that you might want to use these sites. You might want to reconnect with an old friend or perform a background check before going on a first date. But people search sites also make it easier for hackers, identity thieves, stalkers and abusers to find and track victims. How to Remove Your Information From People Search Sites Removing your information from people search websites can be difficult and time consuming. Services like Experian's personal privacy scan can help, and might even handle the entire process for some sites. But here are the general steps you can take if you want to go the DIY route. 1. Search Your Name You could start by searching your name and looking for people search websites on the first few pages of results. Other people searching your name may see similar results, and this can give you a good list of sites to target once you start sending removal requests. 2. Check Common People Search Sites for Your Information You can also search for your information on popular people search websites, such as: BeenVerified - FamilyTreeNow - FastPeopleSearch - Instant Checkmate - Intelius - PeekYou - PeopleFinders - Pipl - Spokeo - TruthFinder - Whitepages - Searching for yourself can take a lot of time, especially when the sites make you go through multiple steps and add arbitrary loading screens and wait times. You may be asked to pay to see all the results, but paying isn't necessary if you just want to verify that the company has your information before sending an opt-out request. The sites listed above are also only a small sample. You can find more complete lists on: The Privacy Rights Clearinghouse's list of data brokers - Investigative tech reporter Yael Grauer's Big Ass Data Broker Opt-Out List - A Guide to Doxxing Yourself on the Internet from The New York Times - 3. Tell the Company to Remove Your Information Next, you can look for a way to send a request to each site to delete or suppress your information. The best option may be to search the company's name along with terms like "remove," "delete" and "opt-out." The process can vary from one site to another, and the links to their opt-out or requests pages regularly change. Additionally, here are a few things to keep in mind before starting: Consider creating a new email account. People search sites might ask you to set up an account or verify an email address. Creating and using a new email account might help you stay organized and protect you from unwanted spam. - Some companies control multiple sites. For example, PeopleConnect runs Intelius, Instant Checkmate, Truthfinder and US Search. You can use the PeopleConnect Suppression Center to attempt to suppress your data from all those sites
