---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/average-cost-car-insurance/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:36.876054+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:56 GMT
---
Average Cost of Car Insurance in the US for 2025 Quick Answer The national average cost of car insurance is $2,312 annually or $193 per month, according to Experian data. The average cost of full coverage auto insurance ranges from a low of $1,056 in Vermont to a high of $4,252 in Maryland. The national average cost of car insurance in the United States as of December 2025 is $2,312 annually or $193 per month, according to Experian data based on policies sold through our automotive insurance marketplace. Nationwide, the average cost of minimum coverage car insurance is $1,552 annually or $129 per month. If you want more protection or your auto lender requires it, you might opt for full coverage car insurance, which includes comprehensive and collision coverage. The national average cost of full coverage car insurance is $2,902 annually or $242 per month. The cheapest states for car insurance are Vermont, where a full coverage policy costs an average of $1,056 annually ($88 per month), followed by Maine ($111 per month) and New Hampshire ($113 per month). The most expensive states for car insurance are Maryland, with an average annual premium of $4,252 ($354 per month) for full coverage, followed by Connecticut ($312 per month) and New York ($290 per month). Factors That Affect Car Insurance Rates The cost of car insurance can be affected by factors such as: Age (younger drivers generally pay more) - Gender (men typically pay more than women) - Where you live (premiums may be higher areas with high crime or a lot of accidents) - The vehicle you're insuring (new cars cost more to insure than used cars) - Your driving record (incidents and violations usually drive your costs up) - The type and amount of coverage you buy affects the cost of your car insurance. Most states require drivers to have a minimum amount of liability insurance. If your vehicle is financed or leased, you are likely required to carry full coverage as a condition of your loan or lease agreement. While the average costs in this article are good general guideposts, the actual cost of your car insurance could differ. To help find the best rates, take the time to compare insurance quotes from several insurers before buying a policy. How Are Car Insurance Costs Trending? Car insurance costs have increased dramatically in the past few years. The rising cost of vehicles, parts and repairs, as well as the growing frequency of extreme weather events, have all played a role. The number of serious accidents leading to injuries, fatalities and lawsuits is also on the rise, escalating the cost of car insurance claims. U.S. Average Annual Auto Insurance Premiums, 2023-2025 Has the cost of your car insurance risen recently? Regularly taking time to compare car insurance quotes from other providers could help you find the same coverage at lower rates. Experian's free car insurance comparison tool is a convenient way to shop around and get quotes from dozens of top insurance carriers at once. Average Car Insurance Rates by State Where you live isn't the only factor in your car insurance rates, but it plays a significant role. Different states have different insurance regulations and requirements, weather risks, population densities and other characteristics that can impact your auto insurance premiums. Here's the average cost of full coverage car insurance by state and how it differs from the national full coverage policy average of $2,902 annually or $242 per month. Average Car Insurance Rates by State State | Annual Cost | Vs. National Average | ---|---|---| Alabama | $2,223 | -23% | ---|---|---| Arizona | $2,593 | -11% | ---|---|---| Arkansas | $2,566 | -12% | ---|---|---| California | $3,010 | 4% | ---|---|---| Colorado | $2,780 | -4% | ---|---|---| Connecticut | $3,744 | 29% | ---|---|---| Delaware | $3,354
