---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/pros-and-cons-of-debt-consolidation/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:32.938488+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:58 GMT
---
the lender's website. You'll usually need to provide some basic information about yourself, including your name, Social Security number, date of birth, address, contact information, employment and income details and what you're looking for in terms of the loan amount and term. - Review the loan terms. Lenders may be able to underwrite and approve your loan application within minutes or even seconds after you submit it. If you're approved, carefully review the loan agreement to make sure the terms work in your favor. If you like what you see, you can typically sign the contract electronically. - Pay off your debt. If the lender you choose offers direct pay, you'll likely need to provide details about the debts you want to consolidate, including lender names and contact information and the payoff amount. If you opt to pay off the debt on your own, the lender will send the funds to your bank account, often within a few days but as soon as the same day. Once you receive the money, use it to pay off your accounts. - Balance Transfer Credit Card Shop around. Look at and compare top balance transfer credit cards to get an idea of what each one offers. Pay special attention to the length of the 0% intro APR balance transfer promotion and the upfront balance transfer fee. Other features to consider may include a corresponding 0% intro APR promotion on purchases, welcome bonuses, rewards rates and other features that can add value long after the balance transfer promotion expires. - Submit an application. Once you've decided which card you want, submit an application through the credit card issuer's website. You'll provide some basic personal details, including your name, date of birth, Social Security number, address, contact information, employment and income information and housing costs. You may also be able to provide details about the cards you want to pay off directly in the application. - Submit your request. Credit card issuers can typically give you a decision on your application within seconds. If you're approved, the issuer will open the account automatically. If you didn't request a balance transfer in the application, you can do so after the account has been opened, either through your online account or by calling the number on the back of your card. Some issuers may even send balance transfer checks you can use to pay off your debts. - Debt Management Plan You can consider a debt management plan if your options become limited and you can't qualify for a loan or balance transfer card. Professional credit counselors can help you on the path to paying off your debts by working with your creditors, making it easier to afford your monthly debt payments and assisting you with better financial management. Learn more: Is a Debt Management Plan Right for You? Monitor Your Credit Score While Working to Pay Down Debt Whether or not you choose to consolidate your debt, it's important to keep track of your credit score as you work to eliminate your debt. With Experian's free credit monitoring service, you'll get updates on what's impacting your score, personalized insights into ways you might build credit and real-time alerts when changes are made to your credit report. This invaluable tool can make it easier for you to understand how your efforts to become debt-free impact your credit and to address potential issues as they arise to minimize the damage they can cause. Find out what debts you owe Your free credit report lists all your debts, such as credit card balances and loans, helping you create a plan to tackle your debt and improve your financial health. Review your creditAbout the author Ben Luthi has worked in financial planning, banking and auto finance, and writes about all aspects of money. His work has appeared in Time, Success,
