---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/enforcement/premerger-notification-program
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:53:38.459655+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 09 Feb 2026 07:53:35 GMT
---
page to assist in preparing new HSR filings for the Feb. 10, 2025 effective date. (01/07/25) - IMPORTANT NOTICE: The PNO has posted a new guide, 2025 HSR Form Updates: What Filers Need to Know. This guide is meant to start a dialogue around questions related to the new HSR form changes. The PNO invites HSR practitioners to submit questions of broad applicability to HSRRuleReview@ftc.gov. Staff will review these questions and post answers on the Form Changes page. (01/03/25) - NOTICE: Per executive order, the Federal government is closed on Thursday, January 9, 2025. The PNO will not be open to accept filings. Waiting periods that expire on Jan. 9 will not be affected. (01/03/25) - NOTICE: Per executive order, the Federal government is closed on Tuesday, December 24, 2024. The PNO will not be open to accept filings. Waiting periods that expire on Dec. 24 will not be affected. (12/20/24) - The PNO has updated our Guidance for Electronic Submission of Filings page. All filers should be sure to check it out. (12/18/24) - The Premerger Office has created a page to post all things related to the new HSR Form (effective Feb. 10, 2025). The page can be accessed directly at HSR Notification Form Changes Effective February 10, 2025, or through the new tab in the PNO website tab menu. Over the next few months, we will continue to post information to guide filers in using the new Form. Please keep an eye out for updates. (11/14/24) - Please see our new blog post, Planning for the new HSR Form. The new Form will be effective on Feb. 10, 2025. (11/12/24) - The Commission, in concurrence with the Antitrust Division, has issued the final rule changes to the premerger notification form and associated instructions, as well as the premerger notification rules implementing the Hart-Scott-Rodino (HSR) Act. The new changes will be implemented 90 days after publication in the Federal Register. Full details are in the press release. (10/10/24) - The Commission, together with the Antitrust Division, has issued the FY2023 HSR Annual Report and a correction to the FY2022 Annual Report. See the details in the Commission’s press release. (10/10/24) - The PNO has updated Introductory Guide I: What is the Premerger Notification Program?, which provides an overview of the HSR program, policies and procedures. (08/28/24) - The Premerger Office has begun posting Informal Interpretations again, starting with 2021, to bring this resource up to date. (05/06/24). - Important Notice: Recently, the Premerger Office has been seeing issues with submitted PDF documents where the text runs off the margins of the page. Please review all PDFs for formatting issues before submitting your HSR Filing. Thank you. (03/11/24). - Please see our new blog post on the 2024 HSR thresholds and filing fees, which will become effective on March 6, 2024. (02/09/24) - Important Notice: The 2024 HSR thresholds and a revised filing fee schedule have been issued by the Commission and will become effective 30 days after publication in the Federal Register. Please see the press release for more details. A blog post with tips on applying the new thresholds and fees will be posted soon. (01/22/24) - The FY2022 HSR Annual Report has been issued by the Commission, together with the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division. See the details in the Commission’s press release. (01/11/24) - Important Notice: In the event that Kiteworks Accellion is unavailable for HSR filing submission, DO NOT email your filing to the Premerger Office. Emailed filings will NOT be accepted and the emails will be immediately deleted. You may email Premerger@ftc.gov to inform us that you have attempted to file via the portal and that the system is unavailable. (10/19/23) - The FTC and DOJ are extending by 30 days the deadline for the public to submit comments on proposed changes to the
