---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/tips-for-spending-money-wisely/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:27.360282+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:07 GMT
---
sense if health and well-being are important to you. Likewise, it's important to know what tempts you to overspend. By recognizing your spending triggers, you can eliminate temptation or find another outlet when you feel tempted to pull out your credit card. 5. Reduce Spending Where It Makes Sense Cutting costs is a good practice no matter how much you make. Every few months, review your spending and look for areas where you can cut back or eliminate expenses. Consider cheaper options, potential discounts and subscriptions that have raised prices or that you're no longer using. For example, a quick phone call to your insurance company that saves you several hundred dollars a year is worth it. Eliminating unnecessary spending from your budget frees up money to save, invest or spend on things that really matter to you. 6. Consider Long-Term Costs Some purchases come with ongoing costs that can raise your monthly spending. For instance, purchasing higher-quality clothes allows you to get more wear out of your wardrobe but may also increase your dry cleaning bill. Some smart electronics make your home more efficient but require a monthly subscription to take advantage of their features. Let your budget guide your buying decisions, considering how new ongoing spending will impact your financial goals. 7. Limit Your Payment Options Today we have more payment options than ever. Many of them make buying so effortless, you may not realize how much you're spending. Using several payment options like mobile wallets, one-click purchases and buy now, pay later can make it a challenge to budget and track your spending. Instead, stick to just one or two credit or debit cards for all your purchases, including purchases through mobile apps. Track your account balances regularly so you know how closely you're following your budget. The Bottom Line Spending wisely comes down to making choices that improve your finances and your life. It starts with creating a budget, but requires you to make sure your actual spending aligns with your plan. If you're disciplined with spending, using a rewards credit card for purchases allows you to earn rewards that you can later use for a splurge. Before you start shopping for a new card, check your credit score for free to see where you stand. That way, you can narrow your search to the credit cards you're most likely to qualify for. Want to lower your monthly bills? Weâll negotiate bills for you and cancel unwanted subscriptions. Get startedAbout the author LaToya Irby is a personal finance writer who works with consumer media outlets to help people navigate their money and credit. Sheâs been published and quoted extensively in USA Today, U.S. News and World Report, myFICO, Investopedia, The Balance and more. Read more from LaToya
