---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/loans/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:09.962771+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Student Loan or Personal Loan: Which Should I Choose? If you're not sure how to pay for college, we’re here to help you make smart decisions. Use our guide to determine if you should get a student loan or a personal loan. If you're not sure how to pay for college, we’re here to help you make smart decisions. Use our guide to determine if you should get a student loan or a personal loan. Refinancing can lead to significant savings on your monthly mortgage payments. Learn what mortgage refinancing is and when it may be right for you. Your debt-to-income (DTI) ratio can have a big impact on the outcome of your mortgage application. Learn why your DTI ratio matters for your mortgage. Installment loans are among the most common loans available. Here are a few things to know about how installment loans work, plus their pros and cons. Trying to fund a home renovation? Here’s how a personal loan may help with home improvement plans. Some borrowers may have their federal student loans forgiven under the Biden Administration's student loan forgiveness proposal. What are the differences between a home equity loan and a home equity line of credit? Learn more about the different types of home equity financing. Conventional mortgage loans come in all shapes and sizes. Learn about the different types of conventional loans, plus how to choose the right one for your financial situation. Home equity loans can help you finance some of life’s biggest expenses. Here’s what to know about this popular type of financing. Pell Grants offer financial aid to students who display exceptional financial need. Learn more about how Pell Grants work and who may qualify. Before you co-sign a loan or lease, be sure to understand the pros and cons, as well as the responsibilities that come with being a co-signer. Learn how private student loans work and the various ways you can use them to fund college costs.
