---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/preventing-fraud/security-freeze/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:01.596650+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
How to Freeze Your Credit at All 3 Credit Bureaus Quick Answer You can freeze and unfreeze your credit reports at Experian, TransUnion and Equifax online, by phone or by mail. The online option is the fastest and easiest. You have the right to add a security freeze, more commonly called a credit freeze, to all of your credit reports for free. Doing so can limit access to your credit reports, which may help protect you from some types of credit fraud. There are several ways to freeze your credit at each of the three credit bureaus, but freezing your credit online might be the easiest option. What Is a Credit Freeze? A credit freeze is an action you can take to manage access to your consumer credit reports at Experian, TransUnion and Equifax. When you freeze your credit, the credit bureau won't release your report to creditors that want to check your credit as part of an application review process. As a result, creditors may deny applications for new credit accounts, such as credit cards and loans. Although you'll need to remember to unfreeze your reports before applying for credit, keeping your reports frozen can help prevent someone from opening a new account in your name. You can additionally freeze other types of consumer reports, such as your National Consumer Telecom and Utilities Exchange (NCTUE) report and ChexSystems report, to help keep criminals from opening other types of accounts in your name, such as utility or bank accounts. How to Freeze Your Credit If you want to freeze your credit reports, you'll need to request and manage the freeze separately with all three bureaus. You can do this online, by phone or by mail. The fastest and easiest way tends to be online. Some bureaus also have a mobile app that you can use to freeze and unfreeze your report. Experian | TransUnion | Equifax | ---|---|---| Experian Security Freeze | TransUnion | Equifax Information Services LLC | What Information Do You Need to Freeze Your Credit? The information you need to freeze your credit includes personal details and possibly financial documents. These typically include your: Full name - Date of birth - All addresses you've used in the past two years - Social Security number - Government-issued identification, such as a driver's license or state ID card - If you're freezing or thawing your credit reports online, you'll simply need to log in to your account with each bureau individually and go to the credit freeze management center. However, if you're freezing your report over the phone, you may need to verify your identity by entering your information or answering questions. Tip: When freezing or unfreezing your credit reports by mail, you may need to download and fill out a form and include copies (don't send originals) of certain documents (ID, utility bill, bank statement, pay stubs or tax forms) to verify your identity and address. How Long Do Credit Freeze Requests Take? Credit freeze requests online and by phone tend to be processed immediately, although the credit bureaus technically have up to one business day to freeze your credit. It may take up to three days for a bureau to freeze your credit after they receive your letter. Learn more: How to Keep Your Social Security Number Safe What Does a Credit Freeze Do? Freezing your credit limits access to your credit report. When your credit report is frozen, the credit bureau won't share your credit report, or a credit score based on the report, with companies that want to check your credit after you apply for a new credit account. As a result, a credit freeze can help keep someone from: Getting a loan in your name - Opening a credit card in your name - For example, when you apply for a credit card or
