---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-robo-advisors-8764849
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:51.464816+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Lynch & Co. was founded in 1914 by Charles E. Merrill and was acquired by Bank of America in 2009, according to Reuters. While the company was once known for catering to the wealthiest Americans, Merrill Guided Investing now aims to offer a wide range of clients investment management expertise and educational tools. The robo-advisor’s investment portfolios are designed to reflect each investor’s goals, timeline, and risk tolerance. Unlike standard passively managed robo-advisor offerings, Merrill Guided Investing’s portfolios are built and managed using strategic and tactical asset allocations. Merrill’s pitch here is that having the human element can add value in terms of investment selection and portfolio construction beyond what a solely rules-based system can achieve. From an educational perspective, the platform offers webinars, investor education videos, and the Morningstar Investing Classroom, which includes free courses on investment topics ranging from stocks and bonds to mutual funds and ETFs. Why Trust Us Investopedia aims to provide unbiased, comprehensive reviews to help readers make the best decisions with their money. To create this list, Investopedia collected 2420 data points from 20 robo-advisor companies, focusing on the factors that are most important to investors. We reviewed each robo-advisor platform for fees, portfolio management services, goal-planning tools, and other key features in order to give each a rating. Investopedia has been helping readers find the best tools and platforms for managing their finances since 1999. How Do Robo-Advisors Work? Robo-Advisors provide automated investment planning based on specific algorithms. They simplify the management of an investor's portfolio based on the type of account you have and your investment goals. One of the first things you'll do when establishing an account is provide answers to key questions about your financial goals. Depending on which robo-advisor you choose, options for investing include stocks, bonds, and more. Most robo-advisors use a passive investing approach, which can involve basing one's portfolio on an index such as the S&P 500 in order to match the performance of the index. More active approaches and more customization sometimes are possible, but those services typically will cost more. Who Are Robo-Advisors Best For? Those who don't have the time or the confidence to take a close, hands-on approach with their investment portfolios might be a good match for a robo-advisor. Because such a service is automated, one of the benefits is the amount of time it can save account holders. Robo-advisors also might be a good option for those who are new to investing because they provide a way to get started in investing while still learning the best approach. Robo-advisors can also be a good fit for those who want the convenience of 24/7 access to their accounts. Working with a traditional financial planner does not provide this kind of access. Common Robo-Advisor Terms to Understand If you are considering using a robo-advisor for your investing needs, it's a good idea to familiarize yourself with these terms: Modern portfolio theory: Robo-advisors often use an approach based on modern portfolio theory, which is an approach designed to maximize returns within an acceptable level of risk. A key to this is a diversified portfolio. Diversification: Having a diversified portfolio involves spreading out your investment dollars among a broad range of stocks, bonds, and other assets. This is in contrast to having a large percentage of your investments committed to a single security. Asset allocation: One way to describe asset allocation would be that it is how an investor chooses to diversify assets, including equities, cash, and fixed income. The best approach to asset allocation depends on your needs and goals. Someone saving for the short-term would take a different approach than someone saving for the long term. Retirement planning: Determining your approach to retirement planning involves knowing how much income you think you'll need in retirement, then creating and following a plan to
