---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/category/employment_law
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:10:01.629185+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
401(k) 401(k) plans (also just called 401k) are types of retirement plans that an employer sponsors which allows employees to defer taxes. 401(k) plans (also just called 401k) are types of retirement plans that an employer sponsors which allows employees to defer taxes. The ABC test is used in some states to determine whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor for the purpose of determining state unemployment tax. Some courts using this test look at whether a worker meets three separate criteria to be considered an independent contractor: The definition of “able to work” is defined as capable of employment. A person who is able to work is ineligible to receive unemployment benefits on the basis of illness or injury. Abuse is an action that intentionally causes harm or injures another person. This can refer to physical abuse, psychological abuse, mental abuse, or child abuse (see below). Abuse is also to misuse something—e.g., abuse of process. Abusive discharge is a terminated employee’s claim that their termination breached some public policy of the state. Abusive discharge claims are often brought when no claim for breach of contract or violation of a statute can be alleged. Thus, the employee attempts to show that An accommodation originally meant a loan or other financial favor. An accommodation more commonly means providing assistance or convenience for a person, and the practice of modifying objects and situations to their benefit or needs. See: Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). [Last reviewed in November of 2024 by the Wex Definitions Team] The Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA) was issued in 1967 and signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson and prohibits discrimination on the basis of age. Administrative law judges (ALJ) (not administrative judges) are executive judges for official and unofficial hearings of administrative disputes in the Federal government. Age discrimination occurs when employers, labor organizations, and employment agencies treat an employee less favorably because of their age if the employee is at least 40 years old. Employees are protected by the Age Discrimination Employment Act of 1967 (AEDA), and other states’ regulations.
