---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/rules-policy/competition-innovation/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:52:32.346353+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
antitrust matter to the attention of your local attorney general, NAAG’s Find My AG tool can help you find the best way to get in contact. Public Convenings To further the CFPB’s competition and innovation goals, the office holds short, intense problem-solving sessions to research and propose new solutions. During these public convenings, we invite entrepreneurs, investors, and technology professionals to challenge existing market structures that harm consumers and develop solutions to make it easier for consumers to navigate financial markets. One example of these public convenings are CFPB tech sprints, which aim to: Develop actionable technology-focused solutions to a variety of regulatory and consumer protection challenges - Harness technology to reduce burden, improve results, and create greater efficiencies across financial markets - Explore how technology can reshape compliance and speed effective interaction between regulators and financial institutions - Visit the Tech Sprints page to learn more. Ideas for CFPB Rules that Could Enhance Competition or Innovation? The CFPB responds to all petitions for the issuance, amendment, or repeal of CFPB rules, as required by the Administrative Procedure Act. For more information on how to submit a petition under that process, please see Petitions for Rulemaking. We are accepting applications under our No-Action Letter and Compliance Assistance Sandbox Policies. A No-Action Letter states that the CFPB is exercising its supervision and enforcement discretion not to bring an action regarding a particular product under a particular law. A Sandbox Approval similarly creates a liability safe-harbor for certain specific products under identified laws. The CFPB is not considering applications from firms that are repeat offenders. The CFPB is not accepting applications for products that are primarily designed to evade the law, and will only consider applications that articulate a real market problem or unmet need that a novel product or service would solve. Read the No-Action Letter Policy - Read the Compliance Assistance Sandbox Policy - Apply for a No Action Letter of Sandbox Approval by emailing OCI@cfpb.gov. - We also accept applications under the Trial Disclosure Policy. Under this policy, companies can obtain a safe harbor for testing disclosures that improve upon existing disclosures for a limited period of time while sharing data with the CFPB. If you are interested in the Trial Disclosure Policy, please contact us before you submit a formal application. A Note on Engaging with the CFPB As stated in the Trial Disclosure Policy, No Action Letter Policy, and Compliance Assistance Sandbox Policy, the No Action Letters, Sandbox Approvals, and Trial Disclosure Policy Waivers issued by the Bureau in connection with a granted application are limited to the factual and legal scope stated in those formal documents and the recipient may reasonably rely on any Bureau commitments made in those documents. Parties who contact the Bureau in connection with a potential or pending Trial Disclosure Policy application should bear in mind the following important points about the Bureau’s assessment process under the innovation policies: Bureau staff limit their assessment of any potential or formal application (and of any material submitted in connection with the foregoing) to the factual and legal scope of the formal document issued by the Bureau. - Bureau staff comment (or lack of comment) on any potential or formal application (and on any material submitted in connection with the foregoing) is informal, not binding on the Bureau, not determinative of the outcome of the application process, and has no legal consequence whatsoever. - These documents do not limit in any way private enforcement or enforcement by state enforcers. - Granted Applications The CFPB publishes all applications that have been processed and granted under our innovation policies. You can find the full list of these applications here. How We Handle Your Information Our handling of information you share with the Office of Competition and Innovation is governed by applicable law , which includes the Freedom
