---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-get-5000-personal-loan/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:21.681102+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:44 GMT
---
five days. Banks and credit unions typically take longer to approve loan applications and to fund loans than online lenders. Learn more: How Long Does It Take to Get a Personal Loan? How to Get a $5,000 Loan With Bad Credit It is possible to get a $5,000 loan with bad credit, which is a FICOÂ® ScoreÎ of 580 or below. But you will likely encounter high fees and interest rates as a result, which can make the annual percentage rate, or APRâthe true cost of taking out the loanâsurpass 100%. To improve your chances of qualifying for a more affordable loan, consider getting a cosigner who can add their name and their strong credit to the loanâthough they will be responsible for paying it back if you can't. Or look into small-dollar loans for borrowers with credit challenges, like payday alternative loans at credit unions. Should I Get a $5,000 Personal Loan? Whether or not to get a $5,000 personal loan often depends on what terms you can qualify for. If you have good credit, solid income and you can get a loan that comfortably fits your budget, a $5,000 loan may be a sound financial decision. But if the APR is high and it will be a stretch to afford the payments on your current income, steer clear. What you use the loan for also matters: If it's for home improvements that could increase the value of your home, for example, that's a savvier choice than paying for a vacation or wedding that you couldn't otherwise afford. Adding a fixed monthly payment to your expenses is a big commitment. Make sure that taking on more debt won't lead to missed payments and a damaged credit score. Learn more: What Can a Personal Loan Be Used For? Alternatives to Personal Loans If you can't or choose not to get a personal loan, look into these options instead: Credit cards: You may be able to qualify for an introductory 0% APR credit card, which will let you make charges without accruing interest for, commonly, 12 to 21 months. But to be eligible, you'll need good or excellent credit, and it's crucial to ensure you pay off any balance before the 0% intro period ends to make the best use of the promotion. - Borrowing from family: If you need money urgently, consider asking to borrow from a family member or friend and setting up a formal loan agreement. You can create a repayment plan and even agree on an interest charge to affirm that you take the responsibility of loan repayment seriously. - Government assistance: When you're unable to afford necessities such as utilities and groceries, apply for government financial assistance you're eligible for. You can search for federal food, heating or housing programs using the federal government's Benefit Finder tool, or call 211 to get local help from a range of social assistance agencies. - Frequently Asked Questions The Bottom Line To get a $5,000 personal loan that easily fits your budget, work on strengthening your credit score. Check your FICOÂ® Score and monitor it regularly, which you can do for free by creating an Experian account, so that you can be confident when it comes time to compare loan offers. The better your credit score, the less likely it is you'll have to compromise on the interest rate, loan type or the amount of fees you pay. Need a personal loan? Whether you're looking to eliminate debt or access cash fast, compare personal loan offers matched to your credit profile. Start now for freeAbout the author Brianna McGurran is a freelance journalist and writing teacher based in Brooklyn, New York. Most recently, she was a staff writer and spokesperson at the personal finance website NerdWallet, where she wrote "Ask Brianna," a financial advice column syndicated by the Associated
