---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/earnings-reports-5218419
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:43.270965+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Skip to content Investopedia Trade Search Please fill out this field. Newsletters Search Please fill out this field. News News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Investing Stocks Cryptocurrency Bonds ETFs Options and Derivatives Commodities Trading Automated Investing Brokers Fundamental Analysis View All Simulator Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Banking Banking Savings Accounts Certificates of Deposit (CDs) Money Market Accounts Checking Accounts View All Personal Finance Personal Finance Budgeting and Saving Personal Loans Insurance Mortgages Credit and Debt Student Loans Taxes Credit Cards Financial Literacy Retirement View All Economy Economy Government and Policy Monetary Policy Fiscal Policy Economics View All Reviews Reviews Best Online Brokers Best Crypto Exchanges Best Savings Rates Best CD Rates Best Life Insurance Best Mortgage Rates Best Robo-Advisors Best Personal Loans Best Debt Relief Companies View All Newsletters Follow Us News Markets Companies Earnings CD Rates Mortgage Rates Economy Government Crypto Live Markets News Personal Finance View All Investing Stocks Cryptocurrency Bonds ETFs Options and Derivatives Commodities Trading Automated Investing Brokers Fundamental Analysis View All Simulator Login / Portfolio Trade Research My Games Leaderboard Banking Savings Accounts Certificates of Deposit (CDs) Money Market Accounts Checking Accounts View All Personal Finance Budgeting and Saving Personal Loans Insurance Mortgages Credit and Debt Student Loans Taxes Credit Cards Financial Literacy Retirement View All Economy Government and Policy Monetary Policy Fiscal Policy Economics View All Reviews Best Online Brokers Best Crypto Exchanges Best Savings Rates Best CD Rates Best Life Insurance Best Mortgage Rates Best Robo-Advisors Best Personal Loans Best Debt Relief Companies View All News Company News Earnings Reports and News Check out our latest analysis, previews, and summaries of the latest company earnings announcements. Business Travel Is Back—United Airlines Says Demand Is 'Amazing' Delta's President Expects Main Cabin Airfares to Climb. 'The Math Has to Work.' Here Are the 'Hazards' JP Morgan's Jamie Dimon Thinks Loom Over the U.S. Economy What Airline Earnings Could Say About Travel Trends in 2026 Disney Stock Slides Despite Strong Earnings as Investors Look Ahead to CEO Succession Nike's Turnaround Is 'Going to Take Time.' Meanwhile, The Stock Is Sliding. Cruise Stocks Are Rising After Carnival Turned In a 'Phenomenal' Year Costco's Business Has Been Booming. But Its Stock Has Lagged the Market in 2025. Cracker Barrel Is Still Feeling the Effects of Its Rebranding Debacle. Stock Hits Lowest Level Since 2009. Dollar General's Stock is Jumping. Many Of Its Shoppers Are 'Stretched' This Discount Retailer Is the Latest to Get a Lift From Shoppers Searching for Deals Deere Not Out of the Woods Yet. Here's Why the Stock is Falling Today. After Merger, Dick's Sporting Goods Says It Will Close Some Foot Locker Locations Intuit's Stock Price is Surging Friday. Here's Why the TurboTax Maker is Gaining. This Off-Price Retailer Is the Latest to Get a Boost From Bargain-Hunting Shoppers This Clothing Chain Feels Good About the Holiday Season. Its Stock Is Rising. Nvidia Might Be the Story of the Moment—But Walmart Stock Is Rising Even More Today Walmart's Earnings Will Illustrate How the American Consumer Is Doing The TJ Maxx CEO Says Value-Conscious Holiday Shoppers Are Driving Sales Lowe's Stock Is Jumping After Earnings. Here's Why Its Results Were Different Than Home Depot's. Home Depot Says It's Seeing Homeowner 'Fatigue' That Is Cutting Into Projects Home Depot's Earnings Miss Estimates. Here's What It Says About the Housing Market Disney Tops Profit Estimates But Revenue Falls Short as Linear TV Struggles Continue Disney Is Set to Report Earnings Thursday. Here's What You Need to Know This Sneaker Company Says You Shouldn't Expect 'Black Friday' Discounts What Instacart's Results Tell Us About Grocery Delivery Another Delay in the Release of 'GTA 6' Is Pulling Down Take-Two's Stock Today A Big Beauty Company Wants to Sell Value This
