---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-credit-bureau/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:17.924368+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:15 GMT
---
report might contain your current and past names, addresses, telephone numbers and employers. Furnishers aren't required to send information to the credit bureaus창it's all voluntary. But doing so allows furnishers to report late payments to the bureaus, incentivizing borrowers to pay their bills on time. What Information Do Credit Bureaus Collect? Although most of the information in your credit report comes from data furnishers, the credit bureaus collect public records data, such as bankruptcy filings. Tax liens and civil judgments used to be part of consumer credit reports, but the bureaus no longer add these to your credit reports. What Information Isn't in Your Credit Report? Even if the information is available, credit bureaus also don't include everything on your credit report. For example, Experian won't include information about a consumer's: Race - Ethnicity - Religion - Marital status - Medical history - Sexual orientation - Political affiliations - Friends - Criminal records - Your credit reports also don't contain information about your income, bank account or investment account balances. Who Uses Credit Reports? Many organizations use credit reports to better understand the financial risk associated with an individual. These include: Creditors Creditors, such as lenders and credit card issuers, use credit reports and credit data from the credit bureaus in several ways: Decide whom to send offers to: Creditors might work with a credit bureau to create a list of consumers who meet certain criteria and then send those consumers a preapproved credit offer창like the credit card offers you get in the mail. - Make decisions about an application: When someone applies for credit, the creditor will often use a credit report and credit score to decide whether to approve the application and the terms to offer. - Monitor customers' creditworthiness: Creditors regularly purchase credit reports and scores to monitor existing accounts. They may close your account, offer you a card upgrade or change your credit limit based on changes in your credit report. - Employers In some states, employers can use credit checks when hiring or promoting someone. This may be more common within the financial sector, for roles related to financial management or if the position requires security clearance. Employers never receive a credit score with the credit report. And the credit report they receive is different from the one given to lenders. For example, it doesn't include your date of birth or account numbers. Landlords Landlords also might use a credit report and credit score when reviewing rental applications. Someone with a poor credit history might have trouble qualifying for a rental or have to pay a larger security deposit. Many Other Organizations Also Use Credit Bureau Data Almost every company that has to verify its users' identities창including financial institutions, casinos and online marketplaces창might use data from the credit bureaus. Although they don't receive a credit report, the companies might verify that the identifying information someone provides matches what's in a credit bureau's database. If there's a mismatch in the name, address or date of birth, that could be a sign of identity fraud. The Fair Credit Reporting Act Regulates Credit Bureaus Federal and state laws govern what can and cannot appear in your credit reports and who can request a copy of your credit report. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is one of the most important laws related to credit reporting. Some of its major rules include: Consumers can request a free copy of their credit report. You have the right to get a free copy from each credit bureau weekly through AnnualCreditReport.com. - Negative information, such as late payments, generally must be removed from credit reports after seven years. However, certain bankruptcies can remain for 10 years. - A person or company must have a "permissible purpose" to request a copy of a consumer's credit report. These include when a consumer gives their
