---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
to decline to provide information . A business entity may decline to provide information under paragraph (1) if, in the exercise of good faith, the business entity determines that – (A) this subsection does not require disclosure of the information; (B) after reviewing the information provided pursuant to paragraph (2), the business entity does not have a high degree of confidence in knowing the true identity of the individual requesting the information; (C) the request for the information is based on a misrepresentation of fact by the individual requesting the information relevant to the request for information; or (D the information requested is Internet navigational data or similar information about a person’s visit to a website or online service. (6) Limitation on liability. Except as provided in section 621, sections 616 and 617 do not apply to any violation of this subsection. (7) Limitation on civil liability . No business entity may be held civilly liable under any provision of Federal, State, or other law for disclosure, made in good faith pursuant to this subsection. (8) No new recordkeeping obligation. Nothing in this subsection creates an obligation on the part of a business entity to obtain, retain, or maintain information or records that are not otherwise required to be obtained, retained, or maintained in the ordinary course of its business or under other applicable law. (9) Rule of Construction (A) In general . No provision of subtitle A of title V of Public Law 106-102, prohibiting the disclosure of financial information by a business entity to third parties shall be used to deny disclosure of information to the victim under this subsection. (B) Limitation. Except as provided in subparagraph (A), nothing in this subsection permits a business entity to disclose 52§ 609 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681g information, including information to law enforcement under subparagraphs (B) and (C) of paragraph (1), that the business entity is otherwise prohibited from disclosing under any other applicable provision of Federal or State law. (10) Affirmative defense. In any civil action brought to enforce this subsection, it is an affirmative defense (which the defendant must establish by a preponderance of the evidence) for a business entity to file an affidavit or answer stating that – (A) the business entity has made a reasonably diligent search of its available business records; and (B) the records requested under this subsection do not exist or are not reasonably available. (11) Definition of victim . For purposes of this subsection, the term “victim” means a consumer whose means of identification or financial information has been used or transferred (or has been alleged to have been used or transferred) without the authority of that consumer, with the intent to commit, or to aid or abet, an identity theft or a similar crime. (12) Effective date. This subsection shall become effective 180 days after the date of enactment of this subsection. (13) Effectiveness study . Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit a report to Congress assessing the effectiveness of this provision. (f) Disclosure of Credit Scores (1) In general . Upon the request of a consumer for a credit score, a consumer reporting agency shall supply to the consumer a statement indicating that the information and credit scoring model may be different than the credit score that may be used by the lender, and a notice which shall include – (A) the current credit score of the consumer or the most recent credit score of the consumer that was previously calculated by the credit reporting agency for a purpose related to the extension of credit; (B) the range of possible credit scores under the model used; (C) all of the key factors that adversely affected the credit score of the consumer in the model
