---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-the-average-credit-score-in-the-u-s/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:26.800261+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:28 GMT
---
this to be the case. Tracking Your Credit Score Knowing your FICOÂ® Score (or not knowing it) is one thing, but understanding how credit scores work is another animal altogether. Those who do know their credit scores probably have some sense about what improves or hurts a credit score, by either noting that decreases often coincide with negative credit reporting events, while improvements often happen when a credit card balance is significantly reduced, for example. But there are some core strategies that, when followed, could improve one's credit health: Make on-time payments. Payment history is the most important factor in your FICOÂ® Score. Lenders typically report missed debt payments to the credit bureaus when they are 30 or more days late, and your credit can take a serious hit when that happens. Making all your payments on time, with the help of reminders or autopay, can help build strong credit scores. - Keep revolving balances low. Credit utilization is one of the most important factors in credit score calculations. Keeping overall credit usage below 30% won't by itself generally translate into having at least a good FICOÂ® Score (670 or higher), but those consumers with the highest credit scores (740+) tend to have credit utilization in the low single digits. - Apply for new credit sparingly. Although considered a credit score factor with less impact on scores, applying for multiple new lines of credit over the course of several months can have a negative impact on credit scores. - You can model several of these scenarios in various online credit score simulators (Experian offers a version as well). However, if you're roughly the 1 in 4 consumers who don't know what their credit score is, or haven't checked recently, there's no time like the present to check. If you know where you stand now, you'll be better positioned to either maintain or improve your score to receive approvals for loans and better rates for offers you do receive. Whatâs on your credit report? Stay up to date with your latest credit informationâand get your FICOÂ® Score for free. Get your free reportNo credit card required About the author Chris Horymski leads Experian Consumer Serviceâs data research for Ask Experian, where he publishes insights and analysis on consumer debt and credit. Chris is a veteran data and personal finance journalist and previously wrote the Money Lab column for Consumer Reports and headed research at SmartMoney Magazine. Read more from Chris
