---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/can-i-get-a-balance-transfer-card-with-bad-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:31.973179+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:59 GMT
---
Can I Get a Balance Transfer Card With Bad Credit? Quick Answer It will be a challenge to get a traditional balance transfer credit card with bad credit. You have other options, however, such as applying for a secured credit card that allows balance transfers or asking your card issuer for a lower interest rate. It may not be possible to get approved for a balance transfer card with bad credit. Card issuers typically require a good or excellent credit score to qualify, which is a FICOÂ® ScoreÎ of 670 or higher on an 850-point scale. But there are other ways to strategically pay down credit card debt. You can look into secured credit cards that allow balance transfers, build positive credit habits to improve your score or use payoff methods that don't require a balance transfer. It's a wise move to pursue balance transfers as a way to get debt under control. Here are some other options to consider. Can You Get a Balance Transfer Card With Bad Credit? Typically, you can't transfer a balance between credit cards issued by the same financial institution. Balance transfers are a way for credit card issuers to take on new customers, and it's most beneficial for them to work with those who are more likely to pay off their debt as agreed. That means balance transfer card issuers are looking for applicants with good credit. With fair or poor credit, or a FICOÂ® Score below 670, you likely won't qualify. While eligibility for a balance transfer card can feel restrictive, there's an upside: Once approved, you'll generally receive a 0% annual percentage rate (APR) for a period of time. This allows you an opportunity to pay off credit card debt interest-free. (You will generally pay a one-time balance transfer fee, however; usually 3% to 5% of the transferred amount.) Should You Do a Balance Transfer With Bad Credit? It's unlikely you'll qualify for a balance transfer card with a poor credit score. You'll have more options with at least fair credit, or a FICOÂ® Score between 580 and 669, but a balance transfer card may not be the best choice for you even if you are able to qualify. That's because you may end up paying fees and interest that an alternative option would help you avoid. Here's why it's important to consider a balance transfer carefully with bad credit: Transferring your balance could free you up to take on more debt. In addition to its intended purpose, a balance transfer card allows you to make purchases that could eliminate the benefits of the balance transfer. Make sure you feel confident in your debt payoff plan and have a sound strategy to pay off the debt for good before going this route. - You could pay a higher ongoing APR. If you're offered an introductory 0% APR, that will increase to an ongoing APR on purchases when the introductory period is over. With bad credit, you'll likely receive an APR at the higher end of the range after you've paid off your transferred balance, leading to even more debt if you don't pay off your purchases each month. - A new credit card will mean a new hard inquiry. A hard inquiry for a new credit card can have a negative impact on your credit score, at least in the short term. - You may not qualify for a large enough credit limit to transfer your entire balance. Card issuers may consider your credit score when assigning you a credit limit or a balance transfer limit. If you have bad credit, you may receive a credit limit or balance transfer limit that doesn't cover the total amount of debt you want to pay off. - Alternatives to Balance Transfer Cards for Bad Credit You have several alternatives if a balance transfer card
