---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/preventing-fraud/credit-card-fraud-what-to-do-if-you-are-a-victim/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:31.914029+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
bogus credit card accounts or hack into existing ones. Batches of this stolen data are often bought and sold on illicit exchanges found in the hidden dark web. - Phishing: Use of technology to trick victims into giving up personal information is another way criminals get data needed to open fake credit card accounts or take over existing ones. If crooks use email in this way, the tactic is called phishing; if SMS/text messages are employed, it's known as smishing; and if voice calls are used (often with the assistance of automated robo-dialers), the technique is known as vishing. - Regardless which medium is used, the approach is typically the same: A bogus message, disguised to look or sound like it comes from a trusted source such as a reputable business or governmental agency, urges you to act quickly to prevent catastropheâby clicking a link, filling out a form or providing your password or Social Security number to verify your identity, for example. Sometimes these scams are combined with attempts to solicit payment, but even if no money is sought in the near term, these tactics are designed to rip you off. How to Identify Credit Card Fraud The best way to detect credit card fraud is to watch for signs that someone pretending to be you is seeking or using credit in your name. Here are some ways to do that. Check Credit Card Statements Regularly Whether you receive your statements online or as hard copies, it's important to examine the transaction histories on all of your credit cards to check for suspicious activity. Do so for cards you seldom use as well as the ones you reach for regularly, and keep in mind that discrepancies don't have to be glaring to raise a red flag: Identity thieves sometimes run test transactions involving very small sums to confirm access to an account, as prelude to taking it over or making a more substantial charge later. Keep Tabs on Your Credit Reports Regularly checking your credit reports from all three national credit bureaus (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax) can help you detect attempts to obtain credit in your name. You can get your credit reports free once each week at AnnualCreditReport.com. Study them carefully, noting the appearance of any new accounts you don't recognize or any hard inquiries that are unfamiliar. (Lenders typically perform hard inquiries when they are processing new credit applications.) Don't Ignore Debt Collectors If you receive a letter or phone call seeking payment of a bill that doesn't belong to you, don't ignore it. It could indicate that a criminal opened an account in your name and then abandoned it after running up charges or cash advances. Contact the debt collector and, as appropriate, follow up with the relevant card issuer (and appropriate law enforcement agencies). Learn more: Signs Your Credit Card Has Been Hacked How Does Zero Liability Protection Work? Zero liability protection is a feature of many (but not all) credit cards that shields you from financial responsibility for fraudulent charges made on a stolen card, provided you take reasonable care to protect your cards and report any theft or unauthorized charges promptly. Zero liability protection supplements federal law that limits your maximum liability for unauthorized charges to $50, provided you report the theft within 60 days. Because credit card fraud is common and often outside your control (in the case of a data breach, for instance), zero liability protection is a good feature to look for when comparing credit cards. Understand that you must pay attention to your account and report suspicious charges or the theft or loss of a card as soon as you're aware of it. What to Do if You're a Victim of Credit Card Fraud Steps to take immediately if you believe you've become a victim of credit card fraud
