---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/cybersecurity/articles/-/learn/teaching-kids-internet-safety/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:32.713422+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Teaching Your Kids About Internet Safety Highlights: There are age-appropriate ways to teach your children about Internet safety - Parents can keep the dialogue going as their children get older - Kids need to feel their parents are a safe place to turn to if they feel attacked or uncomfortable online - The Internet can be a source of education and fun for children. They can use it as a resource for school projects, watch fun videos, play interactive games, and learn more about the world. However, it’s also possible for them to stumble on inappropriate content or become a victim of cyberbullying and online predators. They may also unwittingly put themselves or other relatives at risk of identity theft by revealing personal information. That’s why it’s important to educate them starting at an early age. It may also help prevent fraud as they grow older, according to a 2018 study by Javelin Strategy & Research. Children of guardians who educated them about safe online and financial practices early and lift restrictions on their activity later comprised less than 1 percent of identity fraud victims in 2017, compared with 3.6 percent of those with less cautious guardians. Although you may be able to use parental controls on some devices or lock some apps to prevent access by children, the threat still remains as long as children are able to go online. That’s why it’s important for parents to talk with their children about Internet safety. Basic Internet safety guidelines The following guidelines can be implemented and practiced no matter the age of your children: Keep laptops, tablets, and other smart devices in a common family area so children’s Internet use can be supervised. - Create a list of family rules around Internet use. Young children must ask a parent’s permission before accessing the Internet, for example. - Caution children never to reveal personal information including passwords, full names, addresses, phone numbers, Social Security numbers, or even where they go to school. Also teach them not to mention when the family is going on a trip, or post photos of themselves on a trip while the family is away. - Encourage children to come to you if they encounter anything that makes them feel scared or uncomfortable. - Bookmark favorite or acceptable websites for your children to use. - Along with these basic guidelines, there are specific rules for specific ages that can help you teach your children how to help protect themselves while also teaching them how to be responsible for their actions online. Internet safety ages 2-4 Today, many preschoolers may be using tablets, smartphones, or computers. They may use the Internet — accessed by a parent or older sibling — to play games or watch videos. At this age, children don’t have the critical thinking skills to access online content alone, and whether fictional or real, images and portrayals of violence, threats, and danger can be frightening. They may also be at risk of accidentally clicking to an inappropriate site through a hyperlink or ad. A few practices to consider implementing: Always sit with your child when they’re online. - Balance their screen time with other activities. - Try an Internet-filtering tool to help with supervision. These tools can block certain pages or content. Disable pop-ups to prevent pop-up ads, some of which may contain viruses or malware. - Internet safety ages 5-7 As they get older, children begin to develop trust and enjoy conversing and sharing ideas, which can make it easy to target them online. From 5 to 7 years old, children may be more capable at using a mouse, following commands and playing online games and apps. With this, they may become vulnerable to online marketers asking for personal info through registration forms, contests, and surveys. A few practices to consider implementing: Enable ad-blockers. These
