---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/20-types-of-identity-theft-and-fraud/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:50.839144+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:50 GMT
---
theft, and so you'll know quickly if they go missing. Lock cards as soon as you suspect they've been misplaced, and request replacements if you don't locate them quickly. Study your card and checking statements carefully for signs of unauthorized use. Note that tiny transactions can occur when thieves link your account to their own accounts and may be precursors to more substantial withdrawals or funds transfers. Learn more: How to Freeze a Credit Card 3. Driver's License Identity Theft Driver's license identity theft is when a criminal uses your driver's license to impersonate you. How this type of fraud happens: Your driver's license contains personally identifiable information (PII) that identity thieves can use to impersonate you or commit financial fraud. Driver's license identity theft occurs when a criminal steals your driver's license or obtains your license number illegally. They may use it to create a fake ID card or a synthetic identity, or to open new accounts in your name. How to avoid it: Only use your driver's license information when absolutely necessary, and keep your wallet safe. If your license is stolen, report it to the DMV and local police as soon as you discover it. Also, monitor your credit reports for signs of unauthorized activity. Learn more: What Should I Do if My Driver's License Number Is Stolen? 4. Mail Identity Theft Mail identity theft happens when a criminal steals personal information from your mail, then uses the information they find to impersonate you or carry out acts of fraud. How this type of fraud happens: Criminals who steal mail from your mailbox or a postal facility can obtain and alter checks and cash them; obtain credit or debit cards they then misuse; or comb your bills and financial statements for personal information that helps them steal your identity. How to avoid it: Minimize reliance on paper checks by arranging for direct deposit of Social Security and pension payments, unemployment benefits and other recurring payments. Alert your card issuer if a new or replacement credit card isn't delivered in a timely fashion. Stop mail delivery when you're away from home for more than a day or two or arrange for a friend or neighbor to pick it up daily. Learn more: How to Protect Yourself From Mail Fraud 5. Online Shopping Fraud Online shopping fraud is a specific case of card-not-present transactionsâpurchases made using a card number without having to present a physical card. How this type of fraud happens: Thieves who've obtained stolen card numbers, expiration dates and security codes can use that information to commit fraud, as can thieves who steal your username and password to shopping sites where you've stored credit card information. Criminals buy goods or gift cards which they use or resell, leaving you (or the merchant) with an unpaid bill or lost merchandise. How to avoid it: To protect yourself while shopping online, use strong passwords on your accounts with online retailers. Avoid storing credit card information in your account, and make sure you use secure Wi-Fi networks when shopping online. Cancel and replace cards as soon as they go missing or if you suspect your card number may have been compromised. Study your card statements closely and report any unauthorized transactions to the card issuer immediately. 6. Social Security Number Identity Theft Social Security number (SSN) identity theft happens when a criminal gets their hands on your SSN. When someone has your SSN, they can use it to steal your money or commit other acts of fraud by impersonating you. How this type of fraud happens: Unlike personal information that can be found in public records, SSNs are typically kept confidential and used to verify your identity with trusted institutions. Possession of your SSN can provide criminals with access to a wealth of personal records, which they can exploit in
