---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-experian-boost/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:16.949127+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:22 GMT
---
and 10, as well as your VantageScore® 3 and 4. As mentioned, certain payments had never before factored into your credit scores. Experian Boost was the first product to change that, potentially boosting your credit scores immediately if qualified on-time payments are found in your bank and credit card accounts. Learn more: What Is a Thin Credit File? How Much Does Experian Boost Cost? Experian Boost is completely free. Once you sign up for a free or paid Experian membership, you can enroll in Experian Boost. There is no additional charge to connect your bank and credit card accounts, and if you choose to disconnect your account, you can keep your Experian basic membership. If you regularly pay a utility, telecom, rent, streaming or insurance (excluding health insurance) bill using your bank account or credit card, consider using Experian Boost to get credit for your past on-time payments and possibly raise your credit scores. You can always get your FICO® Score for free from Experian to stay on top of your credit and see how you may be able to improve your scores. How to Sign Up for Experian Boost Signing up for Experian Boost is easy and typically takes just a few minutes. To sign up for Experian Boost, you'll first need a free or paid Experian account. Along with access to Experian Boost, the free subscription provides access to your Experian credit report, FICO® Score and other services that can help you maintain good credit health. - On the dashboard, select Credit, then click on Experian Boost. - On the Experian Boost landing page, connect the checking or credit card account(s) you use to pay the bills you want added to your credit file. Use the encrypted form to enter the usernames and passwords you use to log in to those accounts' online dashboards. - Experian Boost will identify eligible accounts it recognizes from the accounts' automatic payments and retrieve up to two years' worth of payment history for each. - Experian Boost will prompt you to confirm the eligible accounts you want added to your Experian credit report. As each approved account is added, Experian Boost will indicate the number of points your credit score has changed as a result. - Frequently Asked Questions The Bottom Line Experian Boost is a free feature that lets you get credit for responsible household bill payments by adding them to your Experian credit file for use in calculating your FICO® Score. Using Experian Boost is quick and easy and may yield an increase in your FICO® Score 8 based on Experian credit data. Instantly raise your FICO® Score for free Use Experian Boost® to get credit for the bills you already pay like utilities, mobile phone, video streaming services and now rent. No credit card required About the author Stefan Lembo-Stolba leads Experian Consumer Service's data research on Ask Experian, publishing insights based on Experian's credit data of over 220 million U.S. consumers. Read more from Stefan Lembo
