---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-the-dark-web/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:03.506641+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:28 GMT
---
or page. Instead, it's a type of network called a darknet. If you set up a private and secure network with a group of friends, that could be an example of a darknet. How Does the Dark Web Work? The Tor network is one of the largest and most well-known darknets, and it's what most people are referring to when they discuss the dark web. Torâshort for "The Onion Router"âbounces information through a series of encrypted layers (like an onion) that offers users more anonymity. There are onion sites and services on the Tor network, and page addresses end in .onion. To access the dark web, you can download and install the free Tor browser. (You can also use it to browse the surface and deep web.) It's perfectly legal, and the U.S. government is a major funder for the Tor Project, which creates the browser. But having access to the browser is only the first step. Unlike the surface web, there aren't great search engines for the dark web. You may need to find an onion site's address on your own, and the names aren't easy to remember. For example, the CIA's onion address is ciadotgov4sjwlzihbbgxnqg3xiyrg7so2r2o3lt5wz5ypk4sxyjstad.onion, and the nonprofit newsroom ProPublica's is propub3r6espa33w.onion. These are two examples of legitimate organizations that have sites on the dark web. But the dark web is best known for the illegal activity that takes place there. Why Is the Dark Web So Popular With Criminals? The Tor network makes it easier to hide your identity and allows people to anonymously create and host onion services. As a result, criminals often use the dark web to buy and sell illicit goods and services. Darknet marketplaces can be surprisingly similar to sites you find on the surface webâcomplete with limited-time sales, customer reviews and advertisements for organic products. However, criminals use these marketplaces to sell illegal products and services, including drugs, weapons and hacking software. Many identity thieves and hacking groups make money selling the information they steal on the dark web. The value of the information can vary greatly depending on what's being sold. Full profiles, or fullz, may come with a name, Social Security number, date of birth and account numbers and could cost around $8 to $30 each. Complete medical records can be particularly valuable to identity thieves, and may go for up to $1,000. Cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin, are the preferred means of payments as these also help keep buyers and sellers anonymous. How to Protect Yourself From the Dark Web The dark web isn't intrinsically bad, illegal or dangerous. Whistleblowers, journalists, activists and law enforcement officers use the dark web to gather and share information without revealing their identity. And around the world, users may want to use Tor or the dark web to evade government censorship and surveillance. However, if you're the victim of identity theft or affected by a data breach, your information could be sold on the dark web. There are some steps you can take to help protect yourself and stay ahead of identity thieves. Be cautious when browsing the dark web. If you choose to browse the dark web, be mindful that you don't know where a .onion address will take you. You could unwittingly wind up on a site that tries to install malware on your device. - Use unique passwords for your accounts. If your account information is stolen, it's only dangerous if an identity thief can actually use it. Creating unique passwords for all your online accounts can help limit the impact of a single data breach. If you suspect your account information may have been compromised, change your password immediately. - Update your passwords. Regularly changing your passwords even in the absence of a threat can also make your account information less useful. A password manager can help you create and
