---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/articles/markets/082615/5-biggest-canadian-insurance-companies.asp
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:08:14.331075+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
a financial review and performance standpoint by Fairfax Financial. 2. Manulife Financial Manulife Financial Corp. (TSX: MFC; New York Stock Exchange (NYSE): MFC) is the largest insurance provider in Canada. It also offers other financial services such as financial advice, wealth management, and asset management solutions. Headquartered in Toronto, the company earned C$58.69 billion ($42.26 billion U.S.) in TTM revenue as of Sept. 30, 2025. This included insurance premiums and income earned from investing those premiums. Manulife’s total assets as of the end of 2024 were C$978.81 billion ($704.74 billion U.S.). Manulife operates in Canada, Asia, and Europe, as well as in the United States through its John Hancock subsidiary. At the end of 2024, the company served over 36 million clients with the help of over 37,000 employees and more than 109,000 agents. The firm was established as The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company in 1887 and sold its first out-of-country policy in Bermuda in 1893. In 2002, the China Insurance Regulatory Commission (CIRC) granted the company approval to open a branch in Guangzhou. It was the first license granted to a foreign-invested joint venture life insurance company to open a branch in China. Manulife now has licensed branches in more than 50 cities on the Chinese mainland. 3. Great-West Lifeco Great-West Lifeco Inc. (TSX: GWO) is a financial services provider headquartered in Winnipeg that operates as a holding company for six subsidiaries. It provides insurance to customers in North America, Europe, and Asia. As of Sept. 30, 2025, Great-West Lifeco generated C$42.22 billion ($30.4 billion U.S.) in TTM revenue, which included insurance premiums, deposits, and income from investments such as dividends. At the end of 2024, Great-West Lifeco had C$802.16 billion ($577.55 billion U.S.) in total assets. Great-West Lifeco offers a variety of insurance policies, including life, health, and disability insurance. The company employs more than 32,250 people and has 106,000 advisor relationships serving 40 million customers. Fast Fact Insurance companies make money by charging customers fees (called premiums) for various types of financial protection (or coverage) and then investing those amounts to generate additional returns. 4. Sun Life Financial Sun Life Financial (TSX: SLF; NYSE: SLF) is based in Toronto and is one of the oldest insurance providers, having been established in 1865. TTM revenue was C$41.53 billion ($29.9 billion U.S.) as of Sept. 30, 2025. This includes insurance premiums and segregated fund deposits, which are life insurance products embedded within mutual funds. Sun Life Financial offers health insurance policies, investment products, and wealth management services. The company has clients in Asia and the United Kingdom, as well as in North America. As of the end of 2024, Sun Life Financial had 66,900 employees, over 85 million clients, and more than 95,000 advisors, and its total assets were C$370.72 billion ($266.92 billion U.S.). 5. Intact Financial Intact Financial Corp. (TSX: IFC) is headquartered in Toronto and was founded in 1809, making it Canada’s oldest insurance company still in operation. It offers property and casualty insurance in Canada, personal and commercial insurance in the U.K. and Ireland, and global specialty insurance. The company also offers insurance specialty solutions in the U.S. Intact Financial earned C$29.7 billion ($21.38 billion U.S.) in TTM revenue as of Sept. 30, 2025. Intact Financial’s total assets as of the end of 2024 were C$59.53 billion ($42.86 billion U.S.). At the end of 2024, Intact Financial had 31,000 employees. How Big Is the Insurance Industry in Canada? Measured by market size, the property, casualty, and direct insurance industry was $56.3 billion in 2024. What Is the Largest Insurance Market in the World? The U.S. is the largest, with revenue from life and non-life insurance of $3.22 trillion. China, the U.K., and Japan are the next largest markets. Where Does Canada Rank Among the World's Insurers? Canada is the eighth-largest market in the world, as measured
