---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-long-does-an-accident-stay-on-your-insurance/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:19.452823+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:36 GMT
---
to insurer, and you can expect that rate hike to be there as long as your insurer considers the accident as a factor in your rate. Learn more: Why Did My Car Insurance Go up Without an Accident? In some cases, an accident could result in your car being totaled, which is when the overall cost of repairs outweighs the value of the car. At that point, your insurer may provide a payout equivalent to your car's actual cash value. The value of a vehicle is typically determined by the vehicle's make and model, age, mileage and condition, among other factors, at the time of the accident. It's essentially a rough estimate of how much the car could have reasonably sold for had it not been totaled. What Else Affects Your Auto Insurance Rates? Your driving record isn't the only factor that affects your auto insurance rates. Every state has its own minimum coverage requirements, and rates tend to vary from state to state. You should find out the types of car insurance coverage your state requires, and which ones are optional to get the best car insurance rates. Things like your gender, age and marital status and how much you drive can all come into play as well. And if you opt for a pricier car that's more expensive to repair or more likely to be stolen, you could end up paying a higher premium. Moreover, insuring a car that's leased or financed tends to be more expensive as your lessor or lender will likely require you to purchase additional coverage. A policy that has a higher deductible, which is the amount you'll pay in out-of-pocket costs before your policy coverage kicks in, generally comes with lower premiums, and vice versa. Just bear in mind that a high deductible could be costly in the event that you have to file a claim. In most states, car insurance companies can also consider your credit when determining your rates by using a credit-based insurance score. Like your consumer credit scores, credit-based insurance scores are based on things like your debt payment history and account balances. If you have a high credit score, it's likely you also have a high credit-based insurance score. Having a strong score can unlock lower rates because it suggests that you may be less likely to file a claim in the future. Stop overpaying for insurance How to Lower Your Car Insurance Rates After an Accident Besides being patient and waiting for the accident to no longer be considered, there are ways you may be able to offset an increase in your car insurance rates following an accident. Improving your credit is a great place to start: Even simple moves, like making timely debt payments and reducing your outstanding credit card balances, could have a big impact if your state allows the use of credit scores in insurance pricing. Review your credit by checking your free credit report and scores from Experian. Another way to lower high premiums for car insurance costs is to explore discounts. Your insurer may offer discounts for students, military service members and seniors. You may also be able to shave your costs by bundling your auto coverage with your renters or homeowners insurance policies. Some insurers offer discounts to policyholders who take a defensive driving course or demonstrate safe driving for a certain period of time. No matter what discounts your current auto insurer may offer, be sure to shop around and compare quotes with other carriers to find the best rate. If possible, it could help to reduce the number of miles you drive annually. Your average mileage plays a significant role in determining your risk and, by extension, your insurance rates. If you've started working from home or got a new job with a shorter commute, be sure to alert
