---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/can-i-get-an-emergency-loan-with-bad-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:21.147358+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:59 GMT
---
Can I Get an Emergency Loan With Bad Credit? Quick Answer If you have bad credit and need emergency cash, you may be able to get an emergency loan from an online lender, credit union or bank. Carefully research and compare your options to ensure you get an affordable offer. An emergency loan can provide much-needed cash in a difficult financial situation. But if you have bad credit, you may be wondering if you can qualify for such a loan. The bottom line is yes, you can get an emergency loan with bad creditâbut your options may be limited. With less-than-ideal credit scores, you can generally expect to pay relatively high interest rates, so it's important to shop around to try to limit your costs. What Is an Emergency Loan? An emergency loan is usually a short-term loan used for unexpected expenses. These loans typically offer quick funding, sometimes putting money in your hand as soon as the same day or the next day. There are several different types of emergency loans available, including personal loans, cash advances and payday alternative loans. Other options, including payday loans, auto title loans and pawnshop loans are best avoided due to their exorbitant costs and restrictive terms. What Can I Use an Emergency Loan For? You can generally use an emergency loan for just about anything you want, but they're best reserved for actual financial emergencies. Examples include: Medical bills - Car repairs - Home repairs - Costs related to an unexpected death - Loss of income - An emergency loan can be particularly beneficial if you don't have sufficient cash set aside in an emergency fund. Where Can I Get an Emergency Loan With Bad Credit? While most affordable financing options are reserved for people with good to excellent credit (FICOÂ® ScoresÎ of 670 or higher), you may still be able to get the cash you need with a bad credit score (FICOÂ® Scores of 300 to 579). Here are some of the primary sources to consider. Online Lenders Online lenders are often more willing to work with bad-credit borrowers than traditional banks because they have a lower cost structure. That said, repayment terms and interest rates can vary wildly with online lenders. While some offer reasonable annual percentage rates (APRs) and give you several years to repay, others charge triple-digit APRs and require repayment within a year or two. As a result, it's crucial that you shop around and compare personal loan options based on your credit profile. Compare personal loan rates Find APRs from 4.99% to 35.99% and flexible terms of 12 to 120 months. Loan amounts range from $1,000 up to $250,000, with funding available the same day or up to 7 days. Offers from our partners View all of our Best Personal Loans for 2026 to see what youâre likely to qualify for, and the rates and terms you might get. Banks While rare, some banks offer emergency loans that can provide the assistance you need. You may start by checking with your current bank, and then researching other local banks to see what they offer. Keep in mind, though, that many banks that offer traditional personal loans may require higher credit scores to get approved. Credit Unions Credit unions are nonprofit organizations owned by their members, so instead of maximizing profits to benefit third-party shareholders, credit unions use their revenue to provide lower interest rates and fees to their members. One product where this approach makes a significant difference is the payday alternative loan (PAL). There are two types of PALs you may come across. Here's how they differ: Feature | PAL I | PAL II | ---|---|---| Loan amounts | $200 â $1,000 | Up to $2,000 | ---|---|---| APR | Up to 28% | Up to 28% | ---|---|---| Repayment term | 1 â 6
