---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/unsolicited-idea-submission-policy/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:47.210110+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Unsolicited Idea Submission Policy Every year Equifax Inc. (“Equifax”) receives many submissions proposing ideas forEquifax's use and commercialization. We appreciate this interest in our company and want to thank each person who has taken the time and effort to get in touch with us. Our policy, however, is that Equifax and its employees do not accept or consider unsolicited ideas, suggestions, proposals, comments, or materials, including for new or improved products, services or technologies, product or service enhancements, processes, advertising campaigns, promotions, marketing plans, or new product or service names (collectively, "Submissions"). We therefore request that you do not send any Submissions in any form to Equifax or any of its employees. The sole purpose of this policy is to avoid potential misunderstandings or disputes when Equifax products, services, marketing, or other projects might seem similar to any Submissions made to the Equifax. Terms Governing Submissions If, despite our policy, you still submit your ideas to the Equifax, the following terms shall apply to your Submissions, regardless of what your communication states. You agree that: Equifax will consider the Submissions to be non-confidential and non-proprietary. - Equifax may use, copy, redistribute, and disclose the Submissions for any purpose in any manner, without compensation to you or any other person or party. - Equifax shall have no obligations concerning the Submissions, including no obligation to review the Submissions, return any materials, or acknowledge receipt of the Submissions. - If you do not agree to these terms, please do not send us any Submissions. Feedback While we cannot accept unsolicited ideas, Equifax always welcomes feedback on our existing business. If you want to send us your feedback, please only provide specific feedback on our existing business and do not include ideas that our policy prohibits. To provide feedback please visit the Support section of our website. Any feedback you provide is deemed non-confidential and non-proprietary and Equifax shall be free to use such feedback without restriction or compensation to you or any other person or party.
