---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/why-is-budgeting-important/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:17.819284+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:34 GMT
---
sure it works for you rather than against you. And if you're already carrying credit card debt or high-interest loans, you can get back on track by creating a debt repayment plan and budget. Remember that paying more than the minimum on your debts can help you save substantial amounts of money on interest long term. 4. Budgeting Can Help You Prep for Emergencies An emergency fund is money that you set aside to cover unexpected expenses or to support yourself in the event that you face a reduction in income. Having some funds tucked away for a rainy day is a big part of feeling financially secure, but saving for an emergency can be tough if you're not keeping your spending in check. With a budget, you can ensure you're prioritizing putting some money away for a rainy day. And beyond that, budgeting can give you insight about how much you should be saving for an emergency in the first place. Experts recommend setting aside three to six months' worth of funds for basic expenses. To see how much you need to save, tally up how much you spend on housing, bills, minimum debt payments, basic groceries and the like. You can think of this as your bare-bones budget. To build your emergency fund, multiply your bare-bones total expenses by the number of months you want to stash away. You could start by focusing on just one month. Then, keep growing your fund from there. The Bottom Line A budget is the foundation of your financial lifeâit's there to help you build your spending and saving habits. It can help you direct your income toward your needs and wants, and steer clear of overspending and consumer debt. If you're motivated to start budgeting but aren't sure where to start, learn about different types of budgets for every spending personality. For example, you might want a budget that puts you in control, or a budget that requires very little effort. When you find yourself going off course with your spending or losing interest in budgeting, spicing things up with a new budget app or fresh saving goal can help you stay on track. Want to lower your monthly bills? Weâll negotiate bills for you and cancel unwanted subscriptions. Get startedAbout the author Evelyn Waugh is a personal finance writer covering credit, budgeting, saving and debt at Experian. She has reported on finance, real estate and consumer trends for a range of online and print publications. Read more from Evelyn
