---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/rules-policy/rules-under-development/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:51:56.323150+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
A proposed rule announces and explains the Bureau’s proposal to address an issue and invites the public to comment. The proposed rule and the public comments received on it form the basis of the final rule. Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking An optional early step in CFPB rulemaking. Used to get initial public input on certain key aspects of potential rulemakings. The CFPB is proposing to revise its 2013 rule articulating procedures for allocations from the Civil Penalty Fund to rescind procedures related to allocations for consumer education and financial literacy programs. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is seeking information in advance of preparing a proposed rule to address concerns related to information furnished to credit bureaus and other consumer reporting agencies concerning coerced debt. The CFPB proposes a narrowly tailored amendment to Regulation E to ensure that consumers sending a remittance transfer have information about the types of inquiries that may be most efficient to direct to the CFPB and the State agency that licenses or charters their remittance transfer provider. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is proposing this interpretive rule to help participants in the market for paycheck advance products determine when certain existing requirements under Federal law are triggered. The proposed interpretive rule also addresses certain costs that are in substantial connection with extensions of such credit, such as expedited delivery fees and costs marketed as “tips.” This proposed rule amending Regulation X would, among other things, streamline existing requirements when borrowers seek payment assistance in times of distress, add safeguards when borrowers seek help, and revise existing requirements with respect to borrower assistance. The proposed rule would implement quality control standards for the use of automated valuation models by mortgage originators and secondary market issuers in determining the collateral worth of a mortgage secured by a consumer’s principal dwelling. The Bureau is proposing to establish a public registry for nonbanks subject to the Bureau’s supervisory authority that use covered terms or conditions, as described in the proposed rule, in a new part 1092 in title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
