---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-personal-loans-8761582
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:29.905651+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
fees can be incurred if you fail to make on-time payments, and if you pay off your loan early, you may be on the hook for a prepayment penalty. Lack of continued access to credit: While receiving a lump sum is useful to some, if you prefer having access to an open line of credit that allows you to borrow money as needed, you may consider opting for a credit card or something like a home equity line of credit (HELOC) over a personal loan. Alternatives to Personal Loans A personal loan—available from many online lenders, banks, and credit unions that offer personal loans—can help you cover an emergency expense, make a home improvement, or help you consolidate higher-cost debt, but it’s not your only choice. Credit Cards With credit cards, cardholders receive a revolving line of credit up to a fixed credit limit and then make monthly payments to pay down their debt. Like personal loans, credit cards allow you to use money flexibly but often charge higher APRs. And since credit cards have variable APRs, the interest rate (plus fees) may fluctuate with changes in the federal funds rate. Some credit cards offer rewards for the money you spend. Depending on the card, you may receive cash-back, rewards points, or miles on your everyday spending. However, if you’re not diligent about paying off your balance on time and in full every month, the interest you pay on your credit card debt will exceed the value of the rewards you earn. Warning Credit cards may not be right for everyone. Interest rates are high, especially if your credit score is fair or poor. If you carry a balance from month to month, interest costs can get expensive. In contrast, personal loans generally have fixed interest rates, so your monthly payment is fixed. And unlike credit cards, personal loans provide borrowers with a lump-sum—if you need additional money, you’d have to apply for another loan. Generally, credit cards are a better choice if you’re looking to finance everyday expenses, while a personal loan is a better choice if you want a lump-sum payment for debt consolidation or paying off a major expense. Whether you opt for a credit card or a personal loan, they’re both types of debt. Failing to make your payments in full and on time will hurt your credit score. Home Equity Loans A home equity loan is a type of mortgage loan that allows you to borrow against the equity you have in your home. Like personal loans, home equity loans provide a lump sum of cash and have fixed interest rates and terms, meaning borrowers have fixed monthly payments. While home equity loans generally offer lower APRs than credit cards and personal loans, they can be risky. Since your home equity is considered collateral with a home equity loan, you could be at risk of foreclosure if you can’t pay it off. Plus, if the value of your home declines, you may end up paying more than your home is worth. One upside of a home equity loan is that your interest payments can be tax-deductible if you use the funds to “buy, build, or substantially improve the residence,” according to the IRS. Frequently Asked Questions Who Is the Best Lender for a Personal Loan? According to our research, LightStream is the best personal loan lender, based on its combination of competitive rates, large loan amounts, and wide range of repayment terms.If you're looking to borrow from a traditional bank, our choice is Citibank. It offers a low maximum APR and same-day funding for Citibank account holders. If you live near a Citibank branch, you can get in-person assistance with your application. What Credit Score Is Needed for a Personal Loan? The average personal loan borrower had a credit score of 685 during the final
