---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution-conan/article-1/section-4/clause-1/states-and-elections-clause
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:09:24.381205+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 06 Mar 2025 19:37:48 GMT
---
its 2015 decision in Arizona State Legislature v. Arizona Independent Redistricting Commission.30 There, the Court rejected the Arizona legislature’s challenge to the validity of the Arizona Independent Redistricting Commission (AIRC) and AIRC’s 2012 map of congressional districts.31 The Commission had been established by a 2000 ballot initiative, which removed redistricting authority from the legislature and vested it in the AIRC.32 The legislature asserted that this arrangement violated the Elections Clause because the Clause contemplates regulation by a state “Legislature” and “Legislature” means the state’s representative assembly.33 The Court disagreed and held that Arizona’s use of an independent commission to establish congressional districts is permissible because the Elections Clause uses the word “Legislature” to describe “the power that makes laws,” a term that is broad enough to encompass the power provided by the Arizona constitution for the people to make laws through ballot initiatives.34 In so finding, the Court noted that the word “Legislature” has been construed in various ways depending upon the constitutional provision in which it is used, and its meaning depends upon the function that the entity denominated as the “Legislature” is called upon to exercise in a specific context.35 Here, in the context of the Elections Clause, the Court found that the function of the “Legislature” was lawmaking and that this function could be performed by the people of Arizona via an initiative consistent with state law.36 The Court also pointed to dictionary definitions from the time of the Framers;37 the Framers’ intent in adopting the Elections Clause;38 the “harmony” between the initiative process and the Constitution’s “conception of the people as the font of governmental power;” 39 and the practical consequences of invalidating the Arizona initiative.40 Footnotes - 1 - U.S. Const. art. I, § 4, cl. 1. See Foster v. Love, 522 U.S. 67, 69 (1997) ( “[I]t is well settled that the Elections Clause grants Congress ‘the power to override state regulations’ by establishing uniform rules for federal elections binding on the States.’” (quoting U.S. Term Limits, Inc. v. Thornton, 514 U.S. 779, 832–33 (1995))). - 2 - Smiley v. Holm, 285 U.S. 355, 366 (1932) - 3 - Id. at 369. - 4 - Roudebush v. Hartke, 405 U.S. 15, 24, 25 (1972). - 5 - United States v. Classic, 313 U.S. 299, 320 (1941). - 6 - U.S. Const. art. I, § 2, cl. 1; U.S. Const. amend. XVII. See also Arizona v. Inter Tribal Council of Ariz., Inc., 570 U.S. 1, 17 (2013) ( “Prescribing voting qualifications, therefore, ‘forms no part of the power to be conferred upon the national government’ by the Elections Clause, which is ‘expressly restricted to the regulation of the times, the places, and the manner of elections.’” (quoting The Federalist No. 60 (Alexander Hamilton))). - 7 - U.S. Const. art. I, § 2, cl. 2; U.S. Const. art. I, § 3, cl. 3. See United States Term Limits v. Thornton, 514 U.S. 779 (1995) - 8 - Smiley v. Holm, 285 U.S. 355, 366 (1932). - 9 - See, e.g., Storer v. Brown, 415 U.S. 724 (1974) (restrictions on independent candidacies requiring early commitment prior to party primaries); Roudebush v. Hartke, 405 U.S. 15, 25 (1972) (recount for Senatorial election); Munro v. Socialist Workers Party, 479 U.S. 189 (1986) (requirement that minor party candidate demonstrate substantial support—1% of votes cast in the primary election—before being placed on ballot for general election). The Court, however, has held that courts should not modify election rules if the election is imminent and “'[n]o bright line separates permissible election-related regulation from unconstitutional infringements.’” Purcell v. Gonzalez, 549 U.S. 1, 5 (2006) (per curiam) (quoting Timmons v. Twin Cities Area New Party, 520 U.S. 351, 359 (1997)). In Purcell v. Gonzalez, the Court observed that “the imminence of the election and the inadequate time to resolve the factual disputes” required the
