---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-apr/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:12.436887+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:18 GMT
---
Lenders use different benchmark indexes to calculate the rates they offer to borrowers. One example is the prime rate, which is directly influenced by the Federal Reserve's federal funds rate. The prime rate can impact the rate you'll get when you apply for new loans, but it won't impact your open accounts unless the APR is variable. How Is APR Calculated? In many cases, the rate lenders advertise is the APR, so you don't have to do any math to get the full picture of your costs. However, some loans may simply charge a fee instead of interest, and the APR isn't always easy to find. In this case, you can use an online APR calculator or run the numbers on your own. If you prefer to do the math, here's the formula you'd use: Example: Let's say you borrow $10,000 with a 12% interest rate, a 5% origination fee and a three-year repayment term. Here's how you'd calculate the loan's APR using the above formula: Multiply $10,000 by 0.12 and then 3, giving you interest charges of $3,600 - Multiply $10,000 by 0.05, giving you an origination fee of $500 - Divide interest and fees of $4,100 by $10,000, giving you 0.41 - Divide 0.41 by 1095 (the number of days in your loan term), for a result of 0.000374429223744 - Multiply 0.000374429223744 by 365, giving you an APR of 0.136666666666667 - Multiply that by 100 to convert the APR to a percentage of 13.67% - APR calculator Frequently Asked Questions Improve Your Credit to Qualify for Lower Rates Lenders consider more than just your credit score when determining your APR on a loan or a credit card. But the better your credit history looks, the higher your chances of scoring favorable terms. You can check your credit scores to see where you stand and pinpoint areas that may need some work. Also, get a copy of your credit report to check for errors and items that may need to be addressed. As you work on improving your credit, it's no guarantee you'll get the best APRs possible, but it will give you the opportunity to get a lower rate than what you currently qualify for, which can save you a lot of money in the long run. Discover low interest credit cards Keep more cash in your wallet with a low interest credit card. See what offers you qualify for based on your FICO® Score. See your offersAbout the author Ben Luthi has worked in financial planning, banking and auto finance, and writes about all aspects of money. His work has appeared in Time, Success, USA Today, Credit Karma, NerdWallet, Wirecutter and more. Read more from Ben
