---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/data-breach-five-things-to-do-after-your-information-has-been-stolen/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:03.394902+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:22 GMT
---
your financial accounts. Being aware of these common signs of phishing attempts can help you stay defensive: Messages that urge you to act immediately using implied or explicit threats, such as "act now to avoid losing access to your account" or "this is your final chance to extend your home warranty" - Unusual sender email addresses - Attachments from companies or organizations that don't typically include them - Requests for information the sender should already have (for example, your bank requesting you confirm your account number) - The Bottom Line Exposure of your personal information in a data breach is a downside to the convenience of digital transactions and e-commerce. It's wise to be prepared in case it happens to you, and to act quickly if it does to minimize the potential damage. If you're the victim of a breach, take a breath, try not to panic and follow these steps. If you confirm your data has been stolen or misused, act immediately and report the matter to appropriate authorities. Monitor your credit for free Credit monitoring can help you detect possible identity fraud, and can prevent surprises when you apply for credit. Get daily notifications when changes are detected. Get free monitoringAbout the author Jim Akin is freelance writer based in Connecticut. With experience as both a journalist and a marketing professional, his most recent focus has been in the area of consumer finance and credit scoring. Read more from Jim
