---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/the-best-personal-loans-8761582
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:29.905651+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
loan amounts and terms Allows co-borrowers Cons Membership restrictions Doesn’t offer pre-qualification No online application for some loan types Overview Navy Federal Credit Union’s personal loans have a lot to offer. Borrowers can choose from a wide range of loan amounts and terms and rates start at 8.74% and won’t exceed 18%. Plus, there are no origination fees. If you’re borrowing at least $30,000 for a home improvement, you can take up to 180 months to pay it off. Just be aware that late payments will result in a $29 late payment fee. Navy Federal earned the second-highest score in the 2024 J.D. Power Consumer Lending Satisfaction Study and a Combined Consumer Review rating of 4.5 (out of 5). This rating, developed by Investopedia researchers, is an aggregate of consumer review ratings on two third-party review sites: Trustpilot and the Better Business Bureau. Unfortunately, only military service members, Department of Defense personnel, and their families can join. Another knock against Navy Federal is that it does not offer pre-qualification; you’ll need to complete a loan application to learn the rates and terms you qualify for. Moreover, you’ll need to join the credit union before you can begin an application. Navy Federal, founded in 1933 and headquartered in Vienna, Virginia, is the nation’s largest credit union. Additional Details Minimum Credit Score Not disclosed Origination Fees None Membership Requirement Yes Available Discounts None Read the Full Navy Federal Personal Loans Review Best Credit Union : Patelco Credit Union Investopedia's Rating 4.6 out of 5 stars APR Range: 9.30% - 17.90% Loan Amount: $300 - $100,000 Loan Terms: 6 months - 84 months Check Rates (opens in a new tab) On Investopedia Why We Chose It We’ve already mentioned that a local credit union should be your first stop when shopping for a personal loan. Patelco Credit Union is the highest-scoring credit union in our rating model, and it’s no wonder why. It offers a broad range of loan amounts and terms, charges no origination fees, and offers pre-qualification and reasonable APRs. Pros & Cons Pros No origination fees Discount for consecutive on-time payments Numerous hardship repayment options Cons No creditor direct pay Does not report to all three credit bureaus Overview Patelco Credit Union may not be a household name. Still, its broad range of personal loan options, competitive rates, customer support tools and resources, and enticing rate discounts are worth noticing. You can borrow as little as $300 and as much as $100,000. Repayment terms range from 6 months to 84 months. Patelco even offers credit builder loans if you want to boost your credit score. Patelco offers two rate discounts. The first is a customer loyalty discount of 0.10% for members with several accounts that meet deposit or loan minimums. The second, a 0.50% reduction, rewards borrowers who make on-time payments for 12 consecutive months. This one can be earned three times for a rate discount of up to 1.50%. Patelco also offers payment protection insurance and several hardship programs if borrowers need more time to make a payment. Membership is easy. You’re eligible if you live or work in a few northern California counties. If you don’t, you can join the Financial Fitness Association (Patelco will cover the fee). Patelco Credit Union was founded in 1936 by Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Company employees. Its headquarters are in Dublin, California, with over $9 billion in assets and 450,000 members. Additional Details Minimum Credit Score 640 Origination Fees None Membership Requirement Yes Available Discounts 0.10% customer loyalty, Up to 1.50% for consecutive on-time payments Read the Full Patelco Credit Union Personal Loans Review Compare the Best Personal Loans for February 2026: Borrow Up to $100,000 Compare the Best Personal Loans for February 2026: Borrow Up to $100,000 Providers Best For APR Range Average Origination Fee Late Fee Time to Receive Loan
