---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/why-is-debit-card-declining/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:39.946696+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:34 GMT
---
to your debit card. Daily purchase limits vary by bank but typically range from $300 to $7,500. Here are the daily purchase limits for several popular banks. Financial Institution | Daily Transaction Limit | ---|---| Alliant Credit Union | $300 to $2,000 | Ally | $5,000 ($500 to $2,000 for new customers) | Capital One | $5,000 | Chase Bank | $400 to $7,500 | Navy Federal Credit Union | $3,000 to $5,000 | SoFi | $6,000 | In addition to daily purchase limits, your bank likely has a daily ATM withdrawal limit. These limits usually range from $300 to $1,000 per day, but you may want to contact your bank to determine their specific limit. 8. You're Traveling You may have experienced a failed debit card transaction while traveling far from home. Usually, the declined debit card is a security measure your bank uses because it suspects fraud. This is especially common if you're traveling to another country. It's also worth noting that, due to sanctions, banks must restrict transactions from certain countries, including Cuba - Iran - Iraq - North Korea - Burma (Myanmar) - Sudan - Syria - How to Fix a Declined Debit Card Whether you're making a purchase online or in person at a business, your debit card could be declined while you're trying to make a purchase. Thankfully, there are steps you can take to resolve the situation. Check to make sure you've entered the correct payment and billing address information. Correcting the mistake may resolve the issue so you can make your purchase. If your information is accurate, try submitting the transaction again, as the decline may be due to a temporary network or server error. However, if the transaction fails again, investigate the issue further before resubmitting. Multiple failed transactions could trip your bank's fraud prevention system. - Respond to verification prompts. Banks often ask you to verify a transaction before approving it, just to make sure there's no fraud involved. In this case, the bank didn't decline the transaction; it's just waiting for verification to confirm the transaction is legitimate. - Check your account balance. Review your online account through your mobile app or website to make sure you have enough money to cover the transaction. - Contact your bank or credit union. If you're unsure why your debit card is declining, call your financial institution to investigate what is causing the issue. It could be an expired or damaged card, a negative balance or any of the scenarios listed above. Often, a customer support representative can help you resolve the issue quickly. - How to Prevent Your Debit Card From Being Declined Dealing with a declined debit card transaction can be frustrating and inconvenient. The following tactics could help to prevent your debit card from declining. Make Sure Your Card Is Unlocked Many banks allow you to lock your debit card as a security measure when you misplace or lose it. While preventing thieves from making unauthorized transactions is crucial, it could also prevent new or recurring transactions, like debit card payments, from being processed. If you find your card, make sure to unlock it through your bank's mobile app or website. Notify Your Bank Before Traveling Let your bank know beforehand when you'll be traveling, especially if you're going abroad. This preventive measure lets your bank know that transactions from your destination are legitimate, not fraud. For the same reason, let your bank know of any upcoming large or unusual purchases that differ from your usual spending habits. Review Your Accounts Regularly Checking your account balance frequently can keep you informed when your balance is low and help prevent declined transactions due to insufficient funds. Additionally, consider signing up for text alerts to be notified when your balance is low. Reviewing your account activity can also help you spot
