---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/executive-orders
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:09:10.252207+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
and Use of Artificial Intelligence). - Executive Order 14115 of February 1, 2024 (Imposing Certain Sanctions on Persons Undermining Peace, Security, and Stability in the West Bank). - Executive Order 14124 of July 17, 2024 (White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity Through Hispanic-Serving Institutions). - Executive Order 14134 of January 3, 2025 (Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of Agriculture). - Executive Order 14135 of January 3, 2025 (Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of Homeland Security). - Executive Order 14136 of January 3, 2025 (Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of Justice). - Executive Order 14137 of January 3, 2025 (Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of the Treasury). - Executive Order 14138 of January 3, 2025 (Providing an Order of Succession Within the Office of Management and Budget). - Executive Order 14139 of January 3, 2025 (Providing an Order of Succession Within the Office of the National Cyber Director). - The Presidential Memorandum of January 3, 2025 (Designation of Officials of the Council on Environmental Quality to Act as Chairman). - The Presidential Memorandum of January 3, 2025 (Designation of Officials of the Office of Personnel Management to Act as Director). - The Presidential Memorandum of January 3, 2025 (Designation of Officials of the Office of Science and Technology Policy to Act as Director). - The Presidential Memorandum of January 3, 2025 (Designation of Officials of the United States Agency for Global Media to Act as Chief Executive Officer). - The Presidential Memorandum of January 3, 2025 (Designation of Officials of the United States Agency for International Development to Act as Administrator). - The Presidential Memorandum of January 3, 2025 (Designation of Officials of the United States International Development Finance Corporation to Act as Chief Executive Officer). - The Presidential Memorandum of January 6, 2025 (Withdrawal of Certain Areas of the United States Outer Continental Shelf from Oil or Natural Gas Leasing). - The Presidential Memorandum of January 6, 2025 (Withdrawal of Certain Areas of the United States Outer Continental Shelf from Oil or Natural Gas Leasing). - The Presidential Memorandum of January 14, 2025 (Certification of Rescission of Cuba’s Designation as a State Sponsor of Terrorism). - The Presidential Memorandum of January 14, 2025 (Revocation of National Security Presidential Memorandum 5). - Executive Order 14143 of January 16, 2025 (Providing for the Appointment of Alumni of AmeriCorps to the Competitive Service). - Recent Executive Orders - Biden Administration Executive Order on the Partial Revocation of Executive Order 13961 (Jan. 19, 2025) ... Sections 1, 3, 4, 5, and 7 of Executive Order 13961 of December 7, 2020 (Governance and Integration of Federal Mission Resilience), are hereby revoked. Sections 2, 6, and 8 of Executive Order 13961 are renumbered as Sections 1, 2, and 3, respectively. Section 1 of Executive Order 13961, as renumbered, is amended by striking the clause “To achieve this policy, in conjunction” and inserting in its place the words “In conjunction”. Section 2(b) of Executive Order 13961, as renumbered, is amended by striking the clause “the Executive Committee established in section 3 of this order” and inserting in its place the words “the Restricted Principals Committee described in section 3 of the National Security Memorandum of January 19, 2025 (National Continuity Policy)”.... Executive Order on Helping Left-Behind Communities Make a Comeback (Jan. 19, 2025) Policy. Well-designed programs that support local and Tribal leaders in left-behind communities can lead to stronger economic outcomes, strengthen regional assets, and reduce regional inequality. It is the policy of my Administration to take a whole-of-government approach to defining, coordinating, and increasing the accessibility of existing and future programs that help left-behind communities.... Executive Order on Providing for the Appointment of Alumni of AmeriCorps to the Competitive Service (Jan. 16, 2025) Policy. The Federal Government benefits from
