---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/budgeting-and-savings-4427755
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:14.248694+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
up for emergencies. Financial health refers to the current state of a person’s monetary assets and liabilities. Although each person's financial circumstances are different, there are rough guidelines that can be used to measure anyone’s financial health. A financially healthy individual may have a steady flow of income, consistent expenses, and regularly increasing savings. An inflexible expense is a recurring expense that typically cannot be altered or eliminated. Inflexible expenses are often set at a fixed amount and payment schedule, such as a monthly rent payment. In addition to current sources of income, lenders closely examine monthly expenses when considering applicants for personal loans, mortgages, or auto loans. Quality of life refers to a non-financial measurement generally associated with job and life satisfaction. A person’s quality of life is highly subjective to their personal experience, though it is often tied to financial security (among other factors). The potential tradeoff between money and quality of life is typically taken into account when considering things like a career or a personal savings plan. Showrooming is the act of visiting brick-and-mortar retailers in order to see products in person before buying them online for a cheaper price. This practice allows customers to try out an item before making a decision to buy it while also finding the best price, which also gives an edge to online retailers. Brick-and-mortar stores have used multiple different marketing tactics to combat showrooming. The average propensity to consume (APC) is a measurement of how much of an individual’s income is spent rather than saved. The APC is calculated by dividing average household consumption (i.e., spending) by average household income (i.e., earnings). On a broader economic level, a high APC can be a sign of a healthy economy, since consumer spending drives economic growth. 50/30/20. "Income + Financial Stability in America." URL: http://fiftythirtytwenty.com/
