---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/does-checking-your-credit-score-lower-it/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:14.063178+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:26 GMT
---
years, the average age of your accounts could be much lower, especially if you've recently opened several new accounts. To avoid lowering your average, try to avoid taking on new credit too often. - Credit mix: The more types of credit you haveâcredit cards, personal loans, student loans, auto loans and mortgage loansâthe better it can be for your credit. While having just one or two won't necessarily lower your credit score, it could limit your credit potential. - New credit: Virtually every time you apply for credit, the lender runs a hard inquiry on your credit report. According to FICO, each new hard inquiry can lower your credit score by as much as five points. If you have multiple hard inquiries in a short period, though, it could have a compounding effect and lower your score even more. - Because there are so many variables that go into calculating your credit score, it's impossible to determine exactly how much damage a negative item may cause to your score. But if you notice your credit score drop and are wondering why, look at these areas to find the likely reason. Get your FICOÂ® ScoreÎÂ for free How Often Can You Check Your Credit Score? You can check your credit score as often as you want without hurting your credit, and it's a good idea to do so regularly. At the very minimum, it's a good idea to check before applying for credit, whether it's a home loan, auto loan, credit card or something else. When you do this, you can help make sure there aren't any problems that could make it difficult to get approved for a new loan or credit account. By checking at least a few months in advance, it can also give you time to address anything that could be hurting your credit score. It's also a good idea to check your credit report at least once a year. While your credit score is a numerical snapshot of your overall credit health, your credit report provides the actual information used to calculate your score. As you check your credit report, look out for anything you don't recognize. If you find something odd, contact the lender to make sure it's legitimate. Sometimes, a lender may operate under a different name and report a name you're not familiar with to the credit bureaus; if you're applying for a car loan, the dealership may submit a credit application to multiple lenders. If you find information you believe is inaccurate or even fraudulent, report it to the credit bureaus. You can get a free credit report from each of the three credit bureaus weekly through AnnualCreditReport.com. You can also get your Experian credit report online anytime for free. How to Check Your Credit Score Historically, it's been difficult to get access to your credit score for free. But it's gotten much easier in the past few years. For example, many financial institutions offer free FICOÂ® Score or VantageScoreÂ® credit score access to their customers for free as a benefit. If you don't have an account with this perk, you can check your FICOÂ® Score through Experian for free. A handful of other services offer this benefit as well. Keep in mind that most lenders use your FICOÂ® Score in credit decisions. So if you're looking at a different credit score, it likely isn't the one lenders will see when they do a hard credit check. Even with a FICOÂ® Score, different lenders may use different versions of the score, such as an industry-specific version for certain types of loans. But you'll still have a good idea of where your credit stands. Tips for Improving Your Credit Checking your credit score regularly is essential if you're working on building or rebuilding your credit history. As you look for opportunities to improve your
