---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/news-4427706
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:51.215965+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Real Estate Agents Could Save You Thousands. Why They Aren’t They More Popular What If A Housing Shortage Isn't The Reason Homes Are So Expensive? 5 Things to Know Before the Stock Market Opens This Unusual CD Boosts Your Rate With a Villanova Basketball Win at Home Markets News, Feb. 5, 2026: Stocks End Sharply Lower for 3rd Straight Day as Risk-Off Sentiment Grips Markets; Dow Sheds 600 Points, Bitcoin Plunges Amazon Plans Its Own Big Boost In AI Spending. The Stock Is Tumbling. Is Now the Time To Load Up on Bonds? Vanguard Thinks So Bitcoin's Price Plunges Below $64,000. Welcome to 2026's 'Crypto Winter' Estée Lauder Stock Tumbled 20% Today. Here's What Dragged the Shares Lower Hims & Hers Launches New Pill That Sends Shockwaves Across Weight-Loss Drugmakers' Stocks Pizza Hut Is Shutting 250 Restaurants. Here's Why. Americans Under 35 Are Finally Buying Homes Again, But Many Are Still Locked Out Silver Price Chaos Is Forcing the World's Largest Jeweler To Shift Strategy Wall Street Thinks Peloton Stock Can Recover. That's Not Happening Today The Job Market Froze Over This Winter Google Says Spending Could Double This Year Amid Its AI Push. Investors Don't Seem Excited The Great Inflation Of 2021 Is Still Haunting The Fed Qualcomm's Disappointing Outlook Stokes Worries About a Global Memory Shortage. The Stock Is Tumbling 5 Things to Know Before the Stock Market Opens Proposed Legislation Could Allow Older Workers to Buy Annuities With 401(k) Funds. But Should They? Tech Stocks Are Getting Hammered—Why Experts Say That's 'Healthy' Markets News, Feb. 4, 2026: S&P 500, Nasdaq Slide as Tech Stocks Tumble for 2nd Straight Day; Dow Closes Near Record High AMD's Stock Got Crushed Today. CEO Lisa Su Says Demand Is 'On Fire' Amazon, UPS and Other Major Companies Are Making Big Job Cuts. Is AI To Blame? Health Care Expenses Can Significantly Reduce Retirees' Income—Here's What To Know Don't Like Trump's Economy? Maybe You Will Next Year Eli Lilly Stock Soars While Novo Nordisk Sinks—Why the Weight-Loss Leaders Are Headed in Opposite Directions Do Stock Sell-Offs Pay Off? These Experts Warn Not to ‘Bottom Feed’ on New Lows These States Have Cut Property Taxes, And More Are Trying To Do The Same These Homebuilder Stocks Get a Boost Following Report of Plan to Build 'Trump Homes' Why Sky-High Tariffs Haven’t Derailed the U.S. Economy—Yet Chipotle Stock Could Benefit from the Company's 'Conservative' 2026 Targets Not Everyone Can Claim the New Car Loan Interest Deduction: What You Need To Know Trump Signs Bill Reopening Government AMD's Stock Takes a Hit Despite Solid Earnings. What Happened? 5 Things to Know Before the Stock Market Opens AI Has Eliminated Entry-Level Jobs but These Graduate Careers Are Still Flourishing The Super Bowl Isn't For Days. The Excitement Around The Ads Is Already Here Markets News, Feb. 3, 2026: Major Indexes Fall as Tech Shares Dive; Dow Hits All-Time High Before Pulling Back; Gold, Silver Rebound The Top 1-Year CD Rate Just Climbed Today—And You Can Flex the Term 100% Stocks? One Expert Makes the Case for an All-Equity Portfolio in Your Working Years How to Choose the Best Repayment Plan After SAVE: A Borrower’s Guide Millions Of Legal Immigrants Are About to Lose Access To Government Loans for Small Businesses Bitcoin Dropped to Prices Last Seen in 2024 as Crypto-Linked Stocks Extended Falls Walmart Made it Into the Exclusive $1 Trillion Club. Here Are the Other Members Tech Leads Stock Market Sell-Off as Jitters Flare Up on Wall Street Here's How Much Amazon Stock Is Expected to Move After Earnings Thursday SpaceX and xAI Have Merged. Now Investors Are Wondering What's Next for Tesla Palantir Earnings Are 'A Warning to Peers' as Software Stocks Slump Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up
