---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/small-business/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:30.228543+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Do you know your business credit score? Your business has a credit history too. Find out what's in your business credit file. Get a business credit report on your business — or check another business. U.S., Canada and now international businesses available. Build a targeted direct mail campaign in minutes Tenant screening reports and background checks Make informed credit decisions on each of your customers. Experian helps you identify creditworthy individuals so you can grow your business while keeping financial risk to a minimum. Check a customer's personal credit report >> Check a client's business credit report >> Find debtors, prioritize files, and collect your unpaid accounts...all with one easy-to-use collection management system. Your business credit has a direct effect on your bottom line. It can mean the difference between getting a line of credit and winning (or losing) a business deal. Running out of cash is one of the worst things that can happen to you when starting a business. Without sufficient capital to fund growth and operating expenses, your business runs the risk of failing early on. Here are three steps we recommend for launching and financing your new venture. An email list can be a small business owner's most valuable asset. While your email database can drive significant revenue, collecting email addresses from customers and prospects is often a challenge. With inbox clutter on the rise customers are becoming... Business credit scores help lenders, suppliers and other creditors quickly evaluate whether a business will pay its bills on time. If you've just started a business you may be wondering how you can establish business credit separately...
