---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/best-cd-rates-4770214
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:54.687783+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
in a 12-month CD with a rate of 5.00%, and withdrew it early, you might have to pay three months' worth of the interest you had earned. So instead of cashing out $500 at the end of the CD term, you'd walk away with less interest earned, the exact amount depending on how early you withdrew the money. Now, not all CDs have early withdrawal penalties. Some no-penalty CDs are available and have more flexibility, However, they may also come with lower interest rates. How Are CDs Taxed? Just like how the interest you earn on any money you have in savings, money market, and checking accounts is taxable as interest income at both the state and federal levels, the interest you earn on your money in a CD is too. Your CD earnings will be reported to the IRS in the year they were earned and posted to your account, so that's when they're taxable—even though you may not withdraw the funds for one or more years into the future. For example, if you have $1,000 in a 1-year CD with a 5.00% interest rate, you'll earn $50 in interest. You owe taxes on that $50, but not on the $1,000 principal you deposited at the start of the term. If you decide to add a CD to your IRA, you may not have to pay taxes until you're ready to withdraw in retirement. You can add CDs in both traditional and Roth IRAs. With a Roth IRA, you are not penalized for withdrawing money from the account if it's open for at least five years because it's funded with after-tax dollars. However, if you want to withdraw money from your Roth IRA CD before it matures, you will be hit with a CD early withdrawal penalty. If your CD matures in a traditional IRA before your retirement age, then you may not be able to withdraw that money without first paying taxes and fees. Alternatives to CDs CDs vs. Traditional Savings Accounts Traditional savings accounts tend to offer lower interest rates. Banks or credit unions with no high-yield savings account options may only offer traditional savings accounts that pay 0.01% to 0.10%. While the national average for savings rates is 0.39%, according to the FDIC, many banks pay much less. For example, Wells Fargo's Way2Save account pays 0.01% APY and Chase offers just 0.01% with its Chase Savings account. When interest rates are high, the top CD rate can be up to 600x the rate you may earn on your money in a traditional savings account. CDs vs. High-Yield Savings Accounts If you just aren't sold on committing your funds for a certain amount of time, or can't afford to because you may need the money in the near term, a high-yield savings account may be a better option. You'll be free to withdraw and deposit funds as you like, though some institutions will limit how many withdrawals you can make each month. Some savings accounts may also require a minimum balance. CDs vs. Money Market Accounts If you're looking for other high-yield accounts, a money market account may serve your needs. Money market accounts offer the feature of allowing you to write checks on the account. Some money market accounts come with debit cards, but money market accounts tend to act more like savings accounts. They may also come with minimum deposit or balance requirements, and money market account rates can easily compete with savings account rates. CDs vs. Bonds If you're interested in venturing out of the bank and into the world of bonds, you have numerous options. You could put cash savings into U.S. government I bonds, which are designed to track or beat the inflation rate. Or you could invest in U.S. Treasuries, in which you lend money to the U.S. government for a
