---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/earnings-reports-5218419
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:43.270965+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Is Doing The TJ Maxx CEO Says Value-Conscious Holiday Shoppers Are Driving Sales Lowe's Stock Is Jumping After Earnings. Here's Why Its Results Were Different Than Home Depot's. Home Depot Says It's Seeing Homeowner 'Fatigue' That Is Cutting Into Projects Home Depot's Earnings Miss Estimates. Here's What It Says About the Housing Market Disney Tops Profit Estimates But Revenue Falls Short as Linear TV Struggles Continue Disney Is Set to Report Earnings Thursday. Here's What You Need to Know This Sneaker Company Says You Shouldn't Expect 'Black Friday' Discounts What Instacart's Results Tell Us About Grocery Delivery Another Delay in the Release of 'GTA 6' Is Pulling Down Take-Two's Stock Today A Big Beauty Company Wants to Sell Value This Season. Investors Are Selling the Stock. McDonald's CEO Says 'Value Matters to Everyone' as Wealthy Customers Stream In Younger Americans Are Dining Out Less. Restaurant Chains Are Feeling the Squeeze. Berkshire Hathaway's Cash Pile Hits Record $381.7 Billion as Buffett Likely Awaits Better Deals in the Market Eli Lilly Boosts Its Outlook on High Demand for Popular Weight-Loss Drugs Chipotle Is Seeing a 'Significant Pullback' in Younger Customers. Its Stock Is Getting Hammered. Caterpillar Stock Hit a Record Wednesday—AI Had a Lot To Do With It Insurer Centene's Unexpected Profit Sends Its Stock Soaring UnitedHealth Earnings Top Expectations, as Insurer Works Toward a Turnaround The Reason Caterpillar's Stock Is 'Priced for Perfection'—And Beating Nvidia in 2025 Keurig Dr Pepper Stock Jumped Today. Here's Why Microsoft Reports Earnings This Week: Here's What Investors Need To Know IBM Beat Sales and Earnings Estimates. Here's Why Its Stock Is Falling Anyway Watch These Tesla Price Levels as Stock Skids After Earnings Miss Mattel Sees Growth in Uno and American Girl Dolls. Barbie Sales Are Slipping. Netflix's Earnings Came With a Jump Scare. Why the Stock is the S&P 500's Biggest Loser. Intuitive Surgical's Stock Jumps As Demand for Robotic Procedures Rises Tesla Is Set To Report Earnings Today. Here's What You Need To Know. GM Is Dealing With Tariffs and an Evolving EV Business. Its Stock Is Jumping. GE Aerospace Stock Hits Record High on Strong Earnings, Raised Guidance Coca-Cola Earnings Beat Expectations. The Stock Is Rising Toward 2025 Highs. Tesla Kicks Off Magnificent 7 Earnings This Week After Its Stock Kicked Into High Gear What Bank Earnings Could Tell Us About the Economy Delta Expects to Get More Revenue from Premium Tickets Than the Main Cabin Soon PepsiCo's Earnings Top Projections; Walmart's Schmitt to Take Over as CFO What Delta Had to Say About the State of the Airline Business in Its Q3 Results Delta Kicks Off Airline Earnings Tomorrow. Here's What to Watch For. Nike's Turnaround Looks Like It's Going Well—But Tariffs Could Be a Stumbling Block Costco's Earnings Are Coming Up. Analysts Like the Stock, But Expect Volatility Ahead. Scholastic Stock Plunges as Uncertainty Over Government School Funding Hurts Results Peter Thiel-Backed Crypto Platform Bullish Swings to a Profit; Stock Surges Logo, Restaurant Change Backlash Hurt Cracker Barrel's Profit, Outlook Why Docusign Stock Is Surging Friday Lululemon Cuts Its Outlook as Sales Slow and Tariffs Squeeze Profits. Its Stock Is Plunging Sydney Sweeney Has Aided a Huge Reversal for American Eagle's Shares. What Now? Macy's Stock Soars as 'Omni-Channel' Retailer's Comparable Sales Unexpectedly Rise More People Are Cooking at Home. That's Been Good for Campbell's SentinelOne Earnings Point to Strong AI-Driven Cybersecurity Demand Newsletter Sign Up Newsletter Sign Up
