---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/length-of-credit-history-affect-credit-scores/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:53.254654+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:55 GMT
---
continue to use credit responsibly, like loans or credit cards, your length of credit history can grow and potentially raise your score. Learn more: How "Short Account History" Affects Your FICOÂ® Score What Happens When You Close an Account? Accounts don't stay on your credit reports forever. When you close an account, such as a credit card, or pay off a loan in full, the payment history is capped and the account shows up your credit reports as closed. But, for the purposes of calculating length of credit history, the age of the account won't immediately be cancelled. Additionally, when you close an account in good standing (meaning with no late payments), the account can remain on your credit reports for up to 10 years. Learn more: Does Closing a Credit Card Hurt Your Credit? Get your FICOÂ® ScoreÎÂ for free How to Improve Your Length of Credit History There are steps you can take to improve your length of credit historyâwhich can in turn help your credit scores. If you already have credit cards, keeping them open can help you maintain your credit history. But if you're tempted to overspend or the card comes with an annual fee, it may be worth closing. If you're brand new to building credit, or currently don't have any credit accounts on your credit file, you can consider applying for new credit, like a secured credit card. Be sure to research credit products that best fit your financial situation and needs before you apply. Asking to be added as an authorized user on the credit card of a family member (or trusted loved one) is also a good option to start building your length of credit history. What Other Factors Affect Your Credit Scores? Credit scoring systems, like the FICOÂ® Score and VantageScoreÂ® credit scoring systems, analyze credit report information to predict how likely you are to pay your debts as agreed. Numerous underlying factors are considered and weighted to calculate your scores using advanced algorithms. In addition to length of credit history, which makes up 15% of your FICOÂ® Score, here's a closer look at the factors and percentage weights FICO considers: Payment history (35%): Your payment history is the most influential factor in your FICOÂ® Score calculation. Missing even a single payment by 30 days or more could hurt your score drastically. And the longer your debt goes unpaid, the more damage it doesâespecially if the account goes into collections. - Amounts owed (30%): FICO also heavily weighs the total amount you owe, along with the current balances compared to original amounts when calculating your score. Your credit utilization is a key element of this factor since it indicates how much you rely on debt to cover everyday spending. - Credit mix (10%): Your credit mix shows how diverse your credit accounts are and can indicate how effectively you manage both revolving and installment credit. Having different types of credit can help boost your credit score. - New credit (10%): Your score may be dinged a small amount when a hard inquiry shows up on your credit report. Lenders typically run hard inquiries every time you apply for credit. And opening new credit accounts also results in new tradelines on your credit reports. It's generally a good idea to avoid applying too frequently to avoid overextending yourself and these small hits to your score. - The Bottom Line To some extent, the length of your credit history is out of your controlâespecially when you're younger. But you can take steps to establish and build up your credit history over time. Adopting good credit habits that align with other credit scoring factors, like paying your bills on time and limiting new credit applications, can also help you see steady credit score improvement. To keep tabs on your credit reports and scores, consider
