---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-an-emergency-fund/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:05.607835+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:18 GMT
---
withdrawal penalties to take out funds before the CD's maturity date. To make a CD work as a place to keep some emergency savings, go for a no-penalty CD or choose multiple CDs at various maturity dates, called a CD ladder, so you'll get access to the money at different periods if you need it. - How to Build an Emergency Fund The best way to build an emergency fund is to automatically direct a portion of each paycheck to your savings account. That can be a challenge if you're on a tight budget or your income fluctuates. But there are ways to grow your emergency savings over time, no matter how much you earn. Here are basic steps to follow to build your emergency fund: 1. Set a Goal Decide how much money you need in the account. If you're building it from scratch, set an initial goal that feels attainable, like $500 or $1,000. You can also calculate your monthly expenses and start your savings journey by aiming to save one or two months' worth of basic costs. Once you hit that milestone, set new goals until you build your savings up to the amount you'd like to have in your account consistently. 2. Create a Budget Now that you have a goal, you'll need to devise a plan for how you'll get there. Budgeting for savings is key to freeing up money for a starter emergency fund. If you don't already have a budget that includes your savings goal as a top priority, you can create a budget now. Building a budget may include reducing expenses or increasing income to allow you to save more. You can also grow your emergency fund by funneling windfalls into savings. If you get a tax refund or money for your birthday, for example, add it to your emergency fund. 3. Set Up Automatic Transfers Once you have enough in your budget to save regularly, establish a recurring automatic transfer from your checking account to your emergency fund. Set it up so that it arrives in your emergency fund once a month or every time you get paid, also called the "pay yourself first" method of saving. This way, you won't forget to contribute to your emergency fund and you won't have the chance to spend the money. 4. Monitor Your Progress Check your savings balance regularly, such as each payday, to ensure your deposits are accurate and to celebrate your progress. Avoid tapping into funds except in the case of a true emergency. When you do use your emergency savings, make a plan for replenishing the funds once the crisis is behind you. Learn more: Tips to Boost Your Emergency Fund The Bottom Line An emergency fund is a path to increased financial security, since you'll know that you're covered if the unexpected happens. You'll also be able to avoid a big credit card balance or new loan payment as a result of borrowing to pay for an unforeseen expense. Apart from the financial and psychological benefits of having funds budgeted for emergencies, you can apply what you've learned about creating following through on savings goals to other parts of your financial life. Once you have a sturdy emergency fund, for example, you can bring the same approach to saving for retirement or building a down payment on a houseâstrengthening your financial foundation for the long term. What makes a good credit score? Learn what it takes to achieve a good credit score. Review your FICOÂ® Score for free and see whatâs helping and hurting your score. Get your FICOÂ® ScoreNo credit card required About the author Brianna McGurran is a freelance journalist and writing teacher based in Brooklyn, New York. Most recently, she was a staff writer and spokesperson at the personal finance website NerdWallet, where she wrote "Ask
