---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/women-and-justice
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:09:15.031893+00:00
last_updated: Wed, 24 Sep 2025 13:39:36 GMT
---
The Gender Justice Collection Originally the Avon Global Center for Women & Justice, this database was acquired by the LII in 2017, and operated as the Women & Justice Collection (WJC) through 2024. In 2025, the collection was renamed the Gender Justice Collection. While the Gender Justice Collection has a similar name to the Cornell Law School Gender Justice Clinic, they operate and are managed separately. The Gender Justice Collection provides access to international, regional, and domestic case law and legislation related to promoting gender justice and ending gender-based violence. Nothing in the Gender Justice Collection should be construed as legal advice, nor should it be considered to be the position or opinion of Cornell University, Cornell Law School, or the faculty of either. Search the Gender Justice Collection. International & Regional Instruments International & Regional Mechanisms Resources by Country U.S. Resources by State Case Law and Legislation by State (coming soon) - Featured Articles and Reports Additional Legal Resources and Databases Resources Addressing Gender-Based Violence and Gender Justice - International and Regional Court Jurisprudence - Free Law Resources - By making these resources available, our goal is to promote the use of laws and principles aimed at providing protection and redress to survivors of gender-based violence and discrimination. The LII Gender Justice Collection is grateful to Nixon Peabody LLP, White & Case LLP and Gibson Dunn, for providing legal research and case summaries for many of the jurisdictions listed above.
