---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/best-online-brokers-4587872
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:08:17.761941+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Minimum: $0 Fees: No commission for stock, ETF, and mutual fund trades; options are $0.50-$0.65 per contract, depending on trading volume Read full review Open an Account Tip Open and fund a new brokerage account and get up to $1,000. Terms apply. Why We Chose It A pioneer in both mobile and online trading, E*TRADE has mastered the art of developing a mobile experience with the right mix of intuitive navigation, robust portfolio and risk management capabilities, deep research, easy-to-digest education, and complex trading tools to cater to investors and traders of all levels. Ongoing enhancements to E*TRADE's mobile capabilities over the past couple of years have solidified its position as our best mobile trading and investing platform for the first time ever. Pros & Cons Pros Excellent range of tools and resources Pre-built and automated portfolio options Educational content library Top mobile apps for traders and investors of all levels Cons Lacks international exchange trading No direct crypto investing Fractional shares only available through a robo-advisor portfolio or dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) Overview Since its founding in 1982, E*TRADE has been at the forefront of embracing innovation that makes for one of the best customer experiences in the industry. Following Morgan Stanley’s acquisition of E*TRADE in 2020, the company has only continued to advance its capabilities by integrating many of Morgan Stanley’s highly regarded research materials, thought leadership insights, and large pool of financial advisors. As one of the largest online brokers in the country, E*TRADE brings an expansive list of investment choices and trading tools to clients via its website, desktop, and two mobile platforms.E*TRADE’s already vast educational catalog has only grown with the Morgan Stanley integration, complementing the intuitive site design in a way that lets new investors enter the market with confidence. For more experienced investors, the ability to do deep analysis has never been greater than now, when proprietary Morgan Stanley research joins highly regarded third-party research and consensus ratings. While E*TRADE only offers these more advanced traders exposure to cryptocurrencies via Spot Bitcoin & Ethereum ETFs and related stocks, traders have access to a wide array of analysis tools, charting functionality, and trading technology to make the most informed decisions in this and many other asset classes. Editor's Note In addition to our review of E*TRADE’s online brokerage platform, we also reviewed the company's robo-advisor service, E*TRADE Core Portfolios. The Bottom Line Through our exhaustive research, we found that Fidelity not only outshines the competition when it comes to ETF investing, low costs, and cash management features, but it is also the best online brokerage platform overall. While International Brokers’ ongoing evolution into a more beginner-friendly platform is driving it closer to parity with the industry’s top all-around brokerage platforms, it remains a top choice for advanced trading techniques and risk management, as well as international trading. For traders planning to make options the main strategy they use to reach their investment goals, tastytrade’s platform and market content are hard to beat. Charles Schwab’s integration of TD Ameritrade's educational programs and trading personalities has produced an unparalleled body of actionable learning materials and live training content for beginners. E*TRADE’s long history of enhancing the user experience continues to shine through with its fantastic mobile apps, while Robinhood makes crypto trading fun and easy for crypto enthusiasts. Compare the Best Online Brokers Broker Star Rating Minimum Deposit Stock Trading Fee Per Contract Options Fee Max Option Legs Fractional Share Trading of Stocks New Spot Bitcoin & Ethereum ETFs Fidelity Investments 4.8 $0.00 $0.00 $0.65 4 Yes Yes Charles Schwab 4.7 $0.00 $0.00 $0.65 4 Yes Yes Interactive Brokers 4.7 $0.00 $0.00 $0.65 6 Yes Yes tastytrade 4.1 $0.00 $0.00 $1.00/Open Only 4 Yes Only Spot Bitcoin ETF Robinhood 3.0 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 4 Yes Yes E*TRADE 3.8 $0.00 $0.00 $0.65 4 No, ETFs only Yes
