---
source_url: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/consumer-tools/credit-reports-and-scores/credit-discrimination-is-illegal/
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:53:06.681609+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
credit history Be sure there are no mistakes or missing items in your credit reports. You have the right to request one free copy of your credit reports each year, from each of the three biggest consumer credit reporting companies, by visiting AnnualCreditReport.com . When you visit the site, you may see steps to view more frequently updated reports online. This gives you a greater ability to monitor changes in your credit. If needed, you can ask whether your credit report is available in your preferred language. Ask questions about total costs Look beyond the monthly payment. Be sure you understand your interest rates and the total amount of interest and fees paid over the long run. Ask about which fees and charges may be negotiable. Stay in control Lenders shouldn’t make you feel rushed or unnecessarily delay action on your application. You have a right to receive information in writing — and in most cases, that means you get timely information on the decision a lender has made about your application for credit. Be sure before signing You shouldn’t ever feel pressured to sign. You should take the time to make sure the credit product and terms work for you. If needed, ask the lender whether help is available in your preferred language. Steps for resolving a dispute Problems with financial products and services sometimes happen, and often they can be fixed if you work directly with the company. Even if you later submit a complaint to the CFPB or hire a lawyer, it can help to take the first steps yourself. Most companies can be reached by telephone, e-mail, online chat, mail, or social media. Tips that can help: Never post your personal data on social media or review sites - Avoid angry, sarcastic, or threatening language - Keep notes as you go—who you spoke with, when, and what they said - Before you contact the company, be prepared and have information on hand: Your name, address, phone number, and account number or transaction number - What happened—as clear and to-the-point as you can - What you want to fix the problem - Documents or screen shots that show what happened - Page last modified @
