---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/improving-credit/building-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:15.887870+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
more harm it can do to your scores. As a general guideline, the lower your credit utilization, the better. So if you have a $10,000 credit limit, for example, make sure your balance stays well under $3,000. Request a Credit Limit Increase If you've had your card for several months or longer, consider requesting a credit limit increase. Doing so could help improve your credit utilization rate. Note that card issuers may not approve a request for a credit line increase if you have a sizable balance, so it's best to pay down as much of your debt as possible before asking. If you are approved for a limit increase, resist the urge to ramp up your credit card spending. Learn more: When to Request a Credit Limit Increase How to Build Credit Without a Credit Card While credit cards are a great tool for building credit, they aren't your only option. Since your credit score is a reflection of how well you've managed debt in the past, any credit accounts you have that are reported to credit bureaus have the potential to help you boost your score. Even if you're just starting out and don't yet have any credit accounts, there are other ways you can build your score over time. Here are three strategies for building credit without a credit card: Consider an Installment Loan If you don't have a long credit history, an installment loan could help you build your score. Auto, mortgage, personal and student loans are all types of installment credit. That means the loan you might use to buy a car or pay for your education has the added benefit of helping you build credit, assuming you make all your payments on time. Keep in mind, though, that it's not advisable to take out a traditional loan simply to build your credit. If you don't need to borrow money, however, you could consider a credit-builder loan. This is a relatively low-cost option that's designed specifically to help you improve your credit standing. Just make sure the lender reports to all three credit bureaus (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax); not all do. Compare personal loan rates Find APRs from 4.99% to 35.99% and flexible terms of 12 to 120 months. Loan amounts range from $1,000 up to $250,000, with funding available the same day or up to 7 days. Offers from our partners View all of our Best Personal Loans for 2026 to see what youâre likely to qualify for, and the rates and terms you might get. Pay Your Loans on Time As we mentioned, your payment history is the most important aspect of your credit score, so pay close attention to your existing debt. Make it a priority to submit all your payments in full and on time to maintain a good payment history. Another factor in your scores is the progress you've made on paying down your loans. Getting loan balances closer to zero indicates to lenders that you're able to repay your debt. Add Monthly Bills to Your Experian Credit Report While you may have a long history of paying bills on time, non-debt payments won't automatically help you build your credit score. The good news is that you can request to have certain bills added to your credit report by using Experian Boost. Experian Boost works by allowing Experian to connect to your bank account and add eligible on-time payments for rent, utility, phone, insurance and streaming service bills to your credit report so they can be instantly reflected in your FICOÂ® Score powered by your Experian report. Get a Cosigner If you need an auto loan, student loan or other type of credit you can't get on your own, consider asking a loved one with good credit to cosign your application. In doing so, your cosigner agrees to repay the
