---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
cards for the transaction of business shall print more than the last 5 digits of the card number or the expiration date upon any receipt provided to the cardholder at the point of the sale or transaction. (2) Limitation . This subsection shall apply only to receipts that are electronically printed, and shall not apply to transactions in which the sole means of recording a credit card or debit card account number is by handwriting or by an imprint or copy of the card. (3) Effective date . This subsection shall become effective – (A) 3 years after the date of enactment of this subsection, with respect to any cash register or other machine or device that § 605 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681c 25 electronically prints receipts for credit card or debit card transactions that is in use before January 1, 2005; and (B) 1 year after the date of enactment of this subsection, with respect to any cash register or other machine or device that electronically prints receipts for credit card or debit card transactions that is first put into use on or after January 1, 2005. (h) Notice of Discrepancy in Address (1) In general . If a person has requested a consumer report relating to a consumer from a consumer reporting agency described in section 603(p), the request includes an address for the consumer that substantially differs from the addresses in the file of the consumer, and the agency provides a consumer report in response to the request, the consumer reporting agency shall notify the requester of the existence of the discrepancy. See also 12 CFR Part 1022.82, 16 CFR Part 641, 72 Fed. Reg. 63771-72 (11/09/07), 74 Fed. Reg. 22640-41 (05/14/09), 86 Fed. Reg. 51817-19 (09/17/21) (2) Regulations (A) Regulations required. The Bureau shall, in consultation with the Federal banking agencies, the National Credit Union Adminis - tration, and the Federal Trade Commission, prescribe regula - tions providing guidance regarding reasonable policies and pro - cedures that a user of a consumer report should employ when such user has received a notice of discrepancy under paragraph (1). (B) Policies and procedures to be included. The regulations pre - scribed under subparagraph (A) shall describe reasonable poli - cies and procedures for use by a user of a consumer report – (i) to form a reasonable belief that the user knows the identity of the person to whom the consumer report pertains; and (ii) if the user establishes a continuing relationship with the consumer, and the user regularly and in the ordinary course of business furnishes information to the consumer reporting agency from which the notice of discrepancy pertaining to the consumer was obtained, to reconcile the address of the consumer with the consumer reporting agency by furnishing such address to such consumer reporting agency as part of 26 § 605A - 15 U.S.C. § 1681c-1 information regularly furnished by the user for the period in which the relationship is established. § 605A. Identity theft prevention; fraud alerts and active duty alerts [15 U.S.C. § 1681c-1] (a) One-call Fraud Alerts (1) Initial alerts. Upon the direct request of a consumer, or an individual acting on behalf of or as a personal representative of a consumer, who asserts in good faith a suspicion that the consumer has been or is about to become a victim of fraud or related crime, including identity theft, a consumer reporting agency described in section 603(p) that maintains a file on the consumer and has received appropriate proof of the identity of the requester shall – (A) include a fraud alert in the file of that consumer, and also provide that alert along with any credit score generated in using that file, for a period of not less than 1 year, beginning on the date of such request, unless the consumer or
