---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-bankruptcy-discharge/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:36.472368+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:15 GMT
---
old) - Federal student loans - Debts for death or personal injury the debtor caused by operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated or impaired - Depending on the type of bankruptcy filing, other debts may also be nondischargeable. Chapter 7 Additional nondischargeable debts under Chapter 7 bankruptcy include: Debts for certain criminal restitution orders - Debts for willful and malicious injury the debtor caused to another entity or to the property of another entity - Chapter 13 Additional nondischargeable debts under Chapter 13 bankruptcy include: Debts incurred to pay nondischargeable tax obligations - Debts for willful and malicious injury to property - Debts arising from property settlements in divorce or marital separation - Debts for restitution or a criminal fine as part of a criminal conviction - Learn more: Alternatives to Bankruptcy What Happens After a Bankruptcy Discharge? When the bankruptcy court issues a discharge order, the court sends a notice to you, your lawyer, the creditors whose debts have been discharged, the trustee overseeing your case and the trustee's lawyer. The notice prohibits creditors from contacting you seeking payment of the discharged debts. If a creditor contacts you after a discharge notice is issued, you can file a court motion to have them sanctioned. Within a few months of the discharge order, your credit reports should be updated to show zero balances on discharged loan and credit card accounts. Depending on your loan agreement and local laws, creditors who issued you secured debtâloans or credit using property as collateral, such as mortgage or auto loansâcan legally seize that property even after a discharge is issued. If you're worried about this, ask a bankruptcy attorney about reaffirming those debts as part of your bankruptcy before a discharge is finalized. Reaffirming your debt means you promise to repay the debt; in exchange, the lender lets you keep the property. However, it's important to act fast to protect your property, because you can't reaffirm the debt once a discharge order is issued. Learn more: What Are the Requirements for Bankruptcy? How a Bankruptcy Discharge Affects Credit While a bankruptcy discharge in itself doesn't affect your credit, filing bankruptcy does. Bankruptcy is extremely damaging to your credit scores, sometimes causing a drop of up to 200 points. (The impact may be less dramatic if your score has already dropped due to missed payments, collection accounts and other negative entries that often precede bankruptcy.) A Chapter 13 bankruptcy remains on your credit report for up to seven years from the date you first file for bankruptcy protection; a Chapter 7 bankruptcy appears for up to 10 years from the filing date. Bankruptcy's effect on your credit score will diminish over time, but some lenders refuse to work with applicants whose credit reports show a bankruptcy, regardless of their credit scores. Learn more: When Does Bankruptcy Fall Off My Credit Report? How to Improve Your Credit After Bankruptcy There are things you can do to start rebuilding your credit as soon as you file bankruptcy. Pay your bills on time. Payment history is the single most important factor affecting your credit scores, so it's in your best interest to commit to paying your bills for loans, credit cards and other debts on time. Just one payment that's overdue by 30 days or more can hurt your scores significantly, so consider setting up autopay to avoid missing a payment. - Get a secured credit card. After filing bankruptcy, old credit cards may be canceled and you may not qualify for new onesâexcept for secured credit cards. A secured card requires making a cash deposit, typically a few hundred dollars. The deposit serves as the credit limit; if you don't pay your bill, the card issuer can keep it. Using a secured credit card regularly and paying your bills on time each month can help rebuild your
