---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-contact-the-credit-bureaus/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:56.924690+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:42 GMT
---
of bogus credit accounts in your name. - Check your credit score: Access to your credit scores varies from one bureau to the next, but you can typically check your credit score for free or a nominal fee. Your credit score could give you insight into your chances of being approved for credit, for instance. - Dispute inaccuracies on your credit report: If you notice inaccurate information on your credit reportâa misattributed late payment or collection account, for exampleâyou have the right to dispute the matter and to have the errant entry removed or corrected. - Manage your account: If you've set up accounts with any of the bureaus, or you wish to register for a subscription, you may want to contact the corresponding agency for technical assistance, to manage your account or cancel your subscription. - The Bottom Line By law and by virtue of their roles as keepers of personal credit data, the national credit bureaus are accessible and responsive to consumer concerns and requests. If you have questions about the contents of your credit reports, or if you believe your personal data has been exposed or stolen, reaching out to the credit bureaus can help you protect your credit standing. Whatâs on your credit report? Stay up to date with your latest credit informationâand get your FICOÂ® Score for free. Get your free reportNo credit card required About the author Jim Akin is freelance writer based in Connecticut. With experience as both a journalist and a marketing professional, his most recent focus has been in the area of consumer finance and credit scoring. Read more from Jim
