---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-do-you-check-for-identity-theft/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:32.096917+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:33 GMT
---
accounts that haven't been affected by identity theftâor consider using a password manager. If your personal information is out there, you'll want to be proactive about protecting your identity. - Freeze your credit. You have the right to freeze your credit report, which prohibits creditors from pulling your report in connection with a credit application. This effectively blocks criminals from opening new accounts in your name. You also have the right to set up a fraud alert, which instructs lenders to take extra steps to verify your identity before processing new credit applications. Both options are free. - Dispute any fraudulent activity on your credit reports. You have the right to dispute information on your credit report, and finding items you believe to be fraudulent is a good reason to do so. Each credit bureau has its own process for correcting inaccuracies found on your credit report. Doing so can help repair any damage that's been done to your credit score. - Formally report the fraud. Reporting identity theft can unlock resources and support while you remedy the situation. The FTC's IdentityTheft.gov provides detailed instructions. You might also choose to file a police report if you're hoping to catch the perpetrator. - The Bottom Line There are multiple ways to check if your identity has been stolen. Adopting these strategies could help you discover fraudulent activity before things get worse. Staying on top of your credit is a simple but powerful way to protect your financial health. Free credit monitoring with Experian makes this part easy. You'll get a heads up whenever something new appears on your credit report and can review your credit report and score whenever you like. Monitor your credit for free Credit monitoring can help you detect possible identity fraud, and can prevent surprises when you apply for credit. Get daily notifications when changes are detected. Get free monitoringAbout the author Marianne Hayes is a longtime freelance writer who's been covering personal finance for nearly a decade. She specializes in everything from debt management and budgeting to investing and saving. Marianne has written for CNBC, Redbook, Cosmopolitan, Good Housekeeping and more. Read more from Marianne
