---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-information-is-updated-continuously/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:29.137778+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:22 GMT
---
How Often Is a Credit Report Updated? Quick Answer You can expect your credit report to update at least once every month. Lenders and other data reporters send monthly reports to the national credit bureaus on their own update schedule, so your credit reports can change continually. Lenders, credit card issuers and other data reporters typically update your credit information at the three national credit bureaus (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax) once every month. Because each reporter sets its own update schedule, the contents of your credit reports can change continually. Here's what you need to know. When Do Creditors Update Accounts? The lenders and credit card issuers you make payments to each month update the credit bureaus monthly on the status of your most recent payments (whether they were made in full and on time) and the amounts of your outstanding loan or card balances. Each creditor may update a given bureau on a different day or week of the month. Because of this, and because you may have multiple creditors providing updates according to their own schedules, the information in your credit report at a given bureau can change from day to day. Example of Credit Report Updates Let's say you have two credit card accounts and a student loan. Each month: Credit Card A reports your payment and balance information to Experian on the first, to TransUnion on the 10th and to Equifax on the 20th. - Credit Card B reports to Experian on the seventh of the month, to TransUnion on the 15th and to Equifax on the 24th. - Your student loan reports to Experian on the eighth of each month, to TransUnion on the first and to Equifax on the 15th of each month. - In this example, at the very least, each credit report will change three times monthly: Experian on the first, seventh and eighth - TransUnion on the first, 10th and 15th - Equifax on the 15th, 20th and 24th - Your Credit Reports May Reflect Different Information In the example above, note that, even when two reports are updated on the same day, each is receiving information from a different creditor. So, changes to each report may be different. As a result, it's normal for the contents of your credit report at one credit bureau to differ from those at another on any given day. Tip: Creditors are not required to report payment information to all three credit bureaus. If you notice an account is missing from one of your credit reports, it may be because the lender doesn't report to that bureau. This is also part of the reason credit scores can vary among the credit bureaus. Learn more: Understanding Your Experian Credit Report Other Information Is Also Updated Continuously Aside from payment and balance information from your existing accounts, information from other sources can also cause regular changes in your credit reports. These include: Hard inquiries: A hard inquiry is a request to view one of your credit reports for purposes of processing a loan or credit application. A hard inquiry appears on your credit reports soon after you apply for a loan or credit card. - Soft inquiries: A soft inquiry is a request for your credit information that's unrelated to an application for new credit. These happen in situations such as when you check your own credit report, one of your existing creditors checks your credit to possibly market new products or services to you, or you're setting up an account with a new utility company and they check your credit to determine if you'll have to pay a security deposit, for example. While soft inquiries show up on your credit report, they have no bearing on your credit scores. - Collection accounts: If a bill you've failed to pay is turned over to a collection department
