---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-remove-hard-inquiries-from-credit-report/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:59.936247+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:50 GMT
---
inquiry that you don't recognize on your credit report, you have the right to dispute it with the credit bureaus. Unrecognized hard inquiries could be a sign of credit fraud, which happens when an identity thief uses your Social Security number or other personally identifiable information to open a new account in your name. On the other hand, you cannot remove legitimate hard inquiries from your credit report. Disputing a genuine hard inquiry on your credit report will likely not result in any change to your scores. Learn more: How Many Hard Inquiries Is Too Many? How to Find Unauthorized Hard Inquiries Check your credit report to look for any unauthorized hard inquiries. If you notice a hard inquiry on your credit report that you don't recognize and believe may be the result of identity theft, you have the right to file a dispute with each of the three national credit reporting agencies (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax). Keep in mind that there may be situations where you don't recognize the name of a company that checked your credit. For example, if you apply for a store credit card, the name of the financial company that performs the hard inquiry may not be the same as the retailer. Before you dispute the inquiry, contact the company that made the inquiry for more information. When you check your credit report, the hard inquiry will be accompanied by the company name and typically the mailing address and a phone number so you can verify whether the inquiry is legitimate. How to Remove Inaccurate Hard Inquiries Here are steps you can follow to dispute hard inquiries on your credit report. Gather documentation. If you have any supporting documents that could help you make your case for why the inquiry isn't legitimate, such as screenshots or pieces of mail, have those at the ready. - Navigate to the Dispute Center. Experian's Dispute Center costs nothing to use, and you'll find additional information on your options for filing a dispute there. - Review your credit report. Within the Dispute Center, you'll be guided to review your credit report to verify whether the entries there are correct. - Submit your dispute. Your credit report will list a phone number you can use to contact Experian about the inaccurate hard inquiry. - Once you submit the request, you can track your progress through the Dispute Center. Generally, the dispute process will be completed within 30 days, but it can take longer if you submit additional documents during the investigation process. If the inquiry was found to be valid, it will not be removed from your credit report. However, if the investigation shows the inquiry was unauthorized, it will be removed from your report. Learn more: How Long Do Credit Report Disputes Take? Check Your Credit Report Regularly It isn't common to find inaccurate information on your credit report, but it can happen. To avoid letting fraudulent and other erroneous information go unchecked, make it a goal to review your credit report regularly to look for anything you don't recognize. Also keep an eye on your credit score (you can check your FICO® Score for free with Experian), and watch out for sudden drops that could indicate fraudulent activity, such as a bogus account opened in your name that's gone unpaid. It's not always possible to avoid identity theft, but as you keep track of your credit history, you'll be in a better position to stop a difficult situation from getting much worse. Dispute information on your credit report Found information on your Experian credit report you feel is innacurate? File a dispute for free to have it resolved. Get startedAbout the author Ben Luthi has worked in financial planning, banking and auto finance, and writes about all aspects of money. His work has appeared in Time, Success, USA
