---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/products/family-identity-theft-protection/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:31.354748+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
What You Need To Know: The credit scores provided are based on the VantageScore® 3.0 model. For three-bureau VantageScore credit scores, data from Equifax®, Experian®, and TransUnion® are used respectively. Any one-bureau VantageScore uses Equifax data. Third parties use many different types of credit scores and are likely to use a different type of credit score to assess your creditworthiness. Receive a product subscription at no cost for an additional adult and help better protect up to 4 children by creating, locking, and monitoring their Equifax credit report. With monitoring2 from all 3 major credit bureaus, we help connect the dots of credit and identity protection for your family. Annual access to your 3-bureau credit scores and report in one place let's you see a whole picture at a glance. Access your credit status wherever you are Dark WebScan3 Identity restoration Up to $2 million in identity theft insurance4 Equifax Complete™ Family Plan ID theft & credit monitoring product features Your credit scores can fluctuate, and it’s important to know where you stand. Stay in the know with daily access to your VantageScore credit score. You’ll know if key changes occur to your 1‑bureau VantageScore credit score, because we’ll be monitoring it and notifying you with custom alerts. Your annual 3-bureau VantageScores will give you a way to assess your credit. You’ll know if key changes occur to your Equifax, Experian and TransUnion credit reports, because we’ll be monitoring all three and provide you with alerts. You’ll know if key changes occur to your Equifax credit report, because we’ll be monitoring it and notifying you with custom alerts. Your annual Equifax 3-bureau credit report will give you an in depth way to assess your credit. Your credit reports are a summary of your credit history. Feel confident with the ability to check your Equifax credit report anywhere, anytime. We are here to help if you become a victim of ID theft. We provide up to $2 million in coverage for certain out-of-pocket expenses related to having your identity stolen. Recovering from identity theft on your own can be time consuming. Let us help make it less of a pain. Our dedicated ID restoration specialists will work on your behalf to help you recover from ID theft. Lost funds due to identity theft can be difficult to replace. As part of your ID theft insurance policy, we'll recover dollar-for-dollar up to $1 million of stolen banking and checking funds and credit/debit card deductibles that are unrecovered through your financial institution. Your personal information shouldn’t be on the dark web. We scan suspected fraudulent websites and alert you if we find your Social Security, credit card, debit card, banking, medical ID, or passport numbers. Share access to all the Equifax Complete™ Premier features with an additional adult of your choice, and choose to share credit monitoring alerts with them. If you believe you’re a victim of fraud, you can activate automatic fraud alerts and we'll place an initial alert on your credit report. This alert encourages lenders to take extra steps to verify your identity before extending credit. On an annual basis, we'll automatically renew your fraud alert, so you don't have to. Help look after your family by adding 4 children to your product. Each child’s Equifax credit report will be locked and monitored for an added security measure. Feel more secure knowing your Equifax credit report is locked down from being accessed (with certain exceptions) for the purposes of extending credit. Losing your wallet is a headache. We make it a less painful ordeal by helping you cancel and reissue your credit and ID cards. Select theft ID protection features, such as alerts, if we find your child's Social Security number on the dark web are available as added security measures. We will require you to provide your payment information
