---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/life-stages/articles/-/learn/how-long-will-your-money-last-in-retirement/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:12.362926+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Build your savings steadily and stay up to date on your progress. Saving for retirement is a marathon, not a sprint. If you aren't saving money already, it's important to start as soon as possible to give your savings time to grow. If you are saving, be sure that you monitor your progress so that you can stay on track. - Take advantage of employer-sponsored retirement plans. Employer-sponsored retirement benefits such as 401(k) matching can be powerful savings tools. If you have access to a 401(k) account, be sure to take full advantage of employer contributions and other benefits. - Make a list of your goals for retirement and the funds needed to get you there. When are you hoping to retire? What do you want to do in your free time? Will you be funding your retirement from your income alone or are you planning with a spouse or partner? Keep a list of your answers to these and other retirement questions and revisit them regularly. Having a defined idea of how you'd like to spend retirement—and how those goals change over time—will help guide your planning process. - Don't forget to update your plan as you age. Planning for retirement as a single person with no children will look very different from planning for retirement with a spouse and kids. As you enjoy major life events such as getting married, having children or starting a new career, be sure to update your retirement plan accordingly. - Your life and career are ever-changing, and your retirement plans should be as well. Once you master the basics of building your savings plan, it's equally important to check your progress regularly and adjust where needed. Don't be afraid to update your plans from time to time so that you can feel confident that your savings will last throughout retirement. Sign up for a credit monitoring & ID theft protection product today! For $19.95 per month, you can know where you stand with access to your 3-bureau credit report. Sign up for Equifax CompleteTM Premier today!
