---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/protection/identity-theft-and-credit-protection/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:53.521578+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 21:35:43 GMT
---
social engineering tactics to trick you into providing them with sensitive information. They may then use your data to defraud you for money or impersonate you, opening new credit in your name or taking over your accounts. The best defense against phishing is to know the red flags and be very skeptical of anyone who contacts you asking you to click links or provide personal data. - Unsecure internet browsing: Using an unsecured, public Wi-Fi can open you up to hackers, who may be able to intercept data transmitted over unencrypted networks. You should avoid logging into accounts or performing sensitive activities, such as an online banking, if youâre on a public internet connection. If you do need to browse on a public network, using aÂ VPN can help you up your defenses. - Malware: Malware, short for malicious software, is a term for software thatâs designed to harm or steal data from victimsâ devices. One type of malware is spyware, which is designed to infect and monitor devices to steal sensitive information. If your device is infected with spyware, bad actors could intercept passwords or banking information and use them to hijack your accounts or steal money from you. - Dark web: TheÂ dark web is a hidden section of the internet associated with illegal activities, including the buying and selling of stolen personal data. Data traded on the dark web by criminals may include Social Security numbers, credit and debit card numbers, passwords, driverâs license information and phone numbers. AÂ free dark web scan can tell you if your information appears on the dark web. If it does, taking additional steps to secure your accounts and lock your credit may be called for. - Theft: Bad actors could steal your purse or your wallet to get their hands on your driverâs license or credit and debit cards. They can use these to impersonate you or carry out financial fraud. - To helpÂ protect yourself from identity theft, take these measures to defend your information: Know the signs of phishing. Your best defense against phishing is to know the red flags and refuse to comply with requests that you click links or provide sensitive information. If anyone contacts you out of the blue asking for your data, simply donât engage. If you believe the communication may be coming from a trusted institution, contact them directly using a verified email or phone number. - Set strong passwords. You should create long,Â hard-to-guess passwordsÂ that use a random mix of letters and numbers for each of your accounts, and avoid reusing passwords. A password manager can help you create and store strong passwords. - Browse safely. If you need to browse on public Wi-Fi, consider using a VPN to access the internet securely and anonymously. Itâs also a good idea to use an antivirus software to routinely scan your device for threats. - Monitor your credit. You canÂ sign up for free credit monitoring through Experian to stay aware of changes to your credit report and FICO Score, which can tip you off to signs of credit fraud. - Stay up to date on scams: Learn about theÂ latest scams you need to be aware of, including AI scams and romance scams. While scammers are always evolving their approaches in an attempt to catch their victims unsuspecting and defraud them, knowing what threats are out there can help you defend yourself. - Protect sensitive documents. Before you dispose of mail or other documents that contain your personal data (including your full name, address and Social Security number), shred them. That helps ensure a bad actor canât intercept and abuse your information. Itâs also a good idea to enroll in paperless billing and bank account statements to cut back on papers containing yourÂ personally identifiable information. - Here are some ways you
