---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-get-a-personal-loan-without-a-credit-check/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:23.716434+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:44 GMT
---
you need money. Alternatives to No-Credit-Check Loans Because no-credit-check loans often make up for your lack of credit history by charging higher interest rates or fees, it may be in your favor to look elsewhere when you need financing. Fortunately, there are many alternative borrowing options to choose from. Here are some options to consider. Paycheck advance apps: Early payday apps are similar to payday loans in that they can provide you with emergency cash between paychecks and typically require no credit check. Unlike a payday loan, these apps review your finances to determine your eligibility to borrow and charge much lower fees, making them a cheaper option. - Payday alternative loans (PALs): If you've been a member of a federal credit union for at least one month, you may be able to borrow a PAL. These are small, unsecured loans designed to provide members with a more affordable emergency borrowing option. - Bad credit personal loans: This option could work for you if you want to take out a traditional personal loan but are concerned you won't get approved due to poor credit. Personal loans for poor credit may be small and come with high interest, so determine what you'll qualify for and what it'll cost to borrow before you apply. - Friend or family loans: A loan from a friend or family member could also be an option. Be sure you understand the risks of borrowing from loved ones before you ask to borrow. If you choose to go this route, write up a formal loan contract both parties can agree to. - How to Apply for a Personal Loan If you've determined that a traditional personal loan is your best fit, follow these steps to apply for a personal loan and improve your approval odds and terms. Compare personal loan rates Find APRs from 4.99% to 35.99% and flexible terms of 12 to 120 months. Loan amounts range from $1,000 up to $250,000, with funding available the same day or up to 7 days. Offers from our partners View all of our Best Personal Loans for 2026 to see what youâre likely to qualify for, and the rates and terms you might get. 1. Check Your Credit Whatever type of loan you apply for, it's always wise to check your credit score first. That way, you'll have a firmer understanding of what exactly you may qualify for. Check your credit score for free through Experian to get a clear picture of your credit score range and how lenders view you as an applicant. 2. Evaluate How Much Money You Need Before you hone in on a specific lender and get prequalified, get clear on exactly how much you need to borrow to meet your goal. If you need $2,000 for an emergency home or auto repair, then a $500 prequalified offer won't be much help. 3. Gather Necessary Information Whether you apply for a loan with or without a credit check, you'll likely need to provide documentation to prove your identity and income. While you may not be asked for all of it, have on hand your government-issued photo ID or driver's license, proof of income such as pay stubs and tax returns, your employment and rent or mortgage history and recent bank statements. 4. Compare Loan Options Before you formally apply, get prequalified to see what rates you're eligible for through various lenders. To make comparing offers simpler, check out loans matched to your credit profile. Compare possible loan options, and be sure to take into account the total cost of the personal loan, which includes fees and interest charges. The APR you see alongside a loan is a good shorthand for checking the amount of monthly interest charges and upfront fees, such as origination fees, which are automatically deducted from the loan amount. Also check
