---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/best-cd-rates-4770214
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:06:54.687783+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
Northern Bank Direct – 4.15% APY (3 or 6 months) Minimum deposit: $500Early withdrawal penalty: 6 months of interestOverview: Northern Bank Direct is the online division of Northern Bank. FDIC-insured since 1960, Northern Bank is headquartered in Woburn, Massachusetts.Rate verified as of Feb. 6, 2026 Pros Low minimum deposit Cons Accounts must be opened online Vibrant Credit Union – 4.15% APY (6 months) Minimum deposit: $5Early withdrawal penalty: All earned interestOverview: Anyone can join Vibrant Credit Union through membership in the Illinois Consumer Council and by maintaining a balance of $5 in a savings account. Headquartered in Moline, Illinois, Vibrant dates back to 1935.Rate verified as of Feb. 6, 2026 Pros Requires only $5 to open Easy path to membership Cons Physical branches limited to Illinois and Iowa TBO Bank – 4.15% APY (6 months) & 4.10% (9 months) Minimum deposit: $500Early withdrawal penalty: 2% of balanceOverview: TBO was established in 1902 as the Bank of Orrick and took its current name in 2024. It is headquartered in Orrick, Missouri, where it has one branch. Anyone nationwide can open and manage an account online.Rate verified as of Feb. 6, 2026 Pros Low minimum deposit Easy online access Cons Only one physical location USAlliance Financial – 4.15% APY (12 months) Minimum deposit: $500Early withdrawal penalty: 6 months of interestOverview: Anyone can join USAlliance by agreeing to a free membership in the nonprofit American Consumer Council and keeping at least $1 in a savings account. Established in 1966 to serve IBM employees, USAlliance is headquartered in Rye, New York.Rate verified as of Feb. 6, 2026 Pros Low minimum deposit Easy path to membership Cons No physical branches outside of New York, Connecticut, and Massachusetts OMB Bank – 4.11% APY (3 months) Minimum deposit: $1,000Early withdrawal penalty: 45 days of interestOverview: Formerly Old Missouri Bank, OMB changed its name in 2023. It has multiple branches in Missouri and Kansas and also is available nationwide through online and mobile banking.Rate verified as of Feb. 6, 2026 Pros Affordable minimum deposit Easy to open online Cons Physical branches limited to Missouri and Kansas Chartway Credit Union – 4.10% APY (3 months) Minimum deposit: $500Early withdrawal penalty: 3 months of interestOverview: Anyone can join Chartway by donating $10 to the Chartway Promise Foundation and keeping $5 or more in a savings account. Headquartered in Virginia Beach, Virginia, Chartway dates back to 1959 when it was formed to serve military and civilian personnel at Norfolk Naval Air Station.Rate verified as of Feb. 6, 2026 Pros Low minimum deposit Easy access to membership Cons No branches outside of Virginia, Texas, and Utah Salem Five Direct – 4.10% APY (5 months) Minimum deposit: $10,000Early withdrawal penalty: 2% of principal balance withdrawnOverview: Salem Five Direct is an online division of Salem Five, which dates back to 1855 and is headquartered in Salem, Massachusetts.Rate verified as of Feb. 6, 2026 Pros Backed by Salem Five Bank Cons Requires $10,000 to open Wings Credit Union – 4.10% APY (6 months) Minimum deposit: $1,000Early withdrawal penalty: 6 months of interestOverview: Anyone can join Wings by donating $5 to the Wings Financial Foundation and keeping at least $5 in a member savings account. Wings Credit Union originally was established in 1938 to serve airline employees. It is headquartered in Apple Valley, Minnesota.Rate verified as of Feb. 6, 2026 Pros Easy access to membership Affordable minimum deposit Cons Few physical branches outside Minnesota Communitywide Federal Credit Union – 4.10% APY (6 months) Minimum deposit: $1,000Early withdrawal penalty: Complex formula; refer to disclosures and exercise cautionOverview: Anyone can join CommunityWide by donating $15 to the credit union's local chapter of the Marine Corps, as well as keeping $5 or more in a savings account. CommunityWide was founded in 1967, and now operates in Michigan and Indiana.Rate verified as of Feb. 6, 2026 Pros Easy access to
