---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/savings-challenges-to-try-this-year/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:28.815055+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:02 GMT
---
10 Savings Challenges to Try in 2026 Quick Answer Some savings challenges to try in 2026 include the 52-week saving challenge, 26-week saving challenge, no-spend saving challenge and no dining out challenge. If higher expenses put a burden on your budget last year, you're not alone. When money is tight, finding funds to save for the future can feel out of reach. But building up your savings is a key part of improving your financial life long term. Without a cushion of savings to rely on, it can be difficult to feel financially stable. Whatever the new year holds, building up your savings can help you weather potential hard times and enjoy the good. One way to get started toward your financial goal is by challenging yourself and gamifying your savings. Here are 10 savings challenges to try in 2026. 1. 52-Week Saving Challenge The 52-week money challenge works like this: Start by depositing $1 in week one, $2 in week two, $3 in week three and so on. Keep the funds you save in an account where it'll earn interest, such as in a high-yield savings account. By week 52, you'll have amassed a full $1,378 in savings. That could be a great start to an emergency fund, or a way to cover next year's holiday shopping or a splurge without going into debt. Reverse 52-Week Saving Challenge Here's a fun twist. If you're starting your money savings challenge in the new year, you may be sitting on some gifted funds from the holidays that you want to funnel into savings. Try a reverse 52-week money challenge. The reverse challenge works much the same way, except you start by saving $52 in week one, $51 in week two, and decrease by $1 per week. You'll have the same amount saved by the end of the challenge. Earn Money Faster Compare high-yield savings accounts Find a high-yield savings account with todayâs APY. Compare current APY and offers to find the best savings account for you. 2. 26-Week Saving Challenge This is a more aggressive spin on the above 52-week challenge that may work better for you if you get paid every other week. You'll start by saving $3 in week one, and then increasing the dollar amount you save by $3 each week. You'll save $6 in week two, $9 in week three, then $12, $15 and so on. By week 26, you'll have added $1,053 to your savings. The most you'll ever deposit in a week will be $75, and you're only making a deposit on each payday. That can make this challenge more attainable. 3. The No-Spend Saving Challenge The no-spend saving challenge is highly customizable, but here's the gist of it. You'll turn saving into a game by setting tight restrictions on all the spending you do, limiting yourself to only basic necessities: housing, bills and groceries. You'll cook at home, find free things to do and challenge yourself to see just how frugal you're capable of being. Then, pocket the money you save and direct it toward building long-term financial stability. It's understandably very difficult to completely cut your discretionary spending, which includes things like meals out, shopping and entertainment. To avoid burning out, consider starting small with a no-spend weekend. If you feel motivated, you could push yourself for a week. The grittiest of no-spend savers can try for a marathon no-spend month. Learn more: Steps to Create Financial Stability 4. Round-Up Saving Challenge For this challenge, implement a round-up rule. Anytime you make a purchase, round up to the nearest dollar and pocket the change. For instance, if you spend $28.57 at the store, the difference is 43 cents. Keep a tally of your change throughout the day or week and then transfer that money over to savings, if you're using cards for payment.
