---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-does-a-personal-loan-impact-your-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:05.090144+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:34 GMT
---
as setting up autopay, can make it more likely your new loan will benefit your scores in the long run, rather than hurt them. What Credit Score Do You Need for a Personal Loan? Credit scores can play a significant role in determining your eligibility for a personal loan, and they also can influence the maximum amount a lender is willing to lend you and the interest and fees you'll be charged on the loan. The higher your credit score, the better the borrowing terms you'll likely get. Lenders can set minimum credit score requirements for their loans however they choose, but the FICO® Score and VantageScore scoring models identify score ranges that denote different degrees of creditworthiness. FICO® Score | VantageScore | ---|---| Exceptional: 800-850Very good: 740-799 Good: 670-739 Fair: 580-669 Poor: 300-579 | Superprime: 781-850Prime: 661-780 Near prime: 601-660 Subprime: 300-600 | ---|---| It may be possible to get a personal loan with a FICO® Score in the fair range or a VantageScore credit score in the near prime range, but you can expect to pay higher interest rates and fees. A FICO® Score that falls in the good range or a VantageScore credit score in the prime range will likely mean a wider range of personal loan options at more affordable borrowing terms. If your scores fall in the higher ranges of either score, you may be offered even more favorable deals on personal loans and other types of credit. Learn more: The Complete Guide to Understanding Credit Scores When to Consider a Personal Loan Reasons for taking out personal loans tend to be, well, personal. Every need is at least a little bit different, but here are some circumstances in which a personal loan could make sense: Managing high-interest debt: Credit card interest rates tend to be steep. Using a relatively low-interest loan to pay down card balances can save you money and help you lower the cost of eliminating credit card debt. - Covering emergency costs: A crisis, such as a medical emergency or an extended unplanned stay away from home with a loved one, can quickly drain your household emergency fund and put a strain on your credit cards. In some cases, it may be less expensive and more convenient to borrow a lump sum you can use as needed to get through a difficult stretch. - Making home repairs or improvements: Unlike a home equity loan or home equity line of credit (HELOC), a personal loan doesn't use your home as collateral. So, financing a remodel, roof replacement or other home project with a personal loan avoids putting your house at risk (but it might come with a heftier interest rate). - Experiencing once-in-a-lifetime adventures: The use of personal loans for weddings, safaris, retirement vacations and other big events is not unheard of, but it's something you should consider carefully before taking on the debt. These expenses are often better paid for out of savings, but if you know you can cover the loan payments, a personal loan could be an option. On the other hand, if finances are tight, even the greatest of escapes won't be worth it if you return to insurmountable bills. - Alternatives to Personal Loans for Building Credit If you're looking for ways to build credit, a personal loan can help under the right circumstances, as described above. Here are some other options you can pursue to help improve your credit scores: Credit-builder loan: A credit-builder loan can bolster credit scores and help you save some money. You borrow an amount ranging from several hundred to several thousand dollars, and the sum is placed in a special interest-bearing account that you cannot touch for the time being. If you complete your payments (with interest), you build up a payment history that can help your credit scores, and the
