---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/rules/frbp
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:09:29.106985+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 01 Dec 2025 14:30:57 GMT
---
Reports, and Give Notices. - Rule 2015.1. Patient-Care Ombudsman. - Rule 2015.2. Transferring a Patient in a Health Care Business Case. - Rule 2015.3. Reporting Financial Information About Entities in Which a Chapter 11 Estate Holds a Substantial or Controlling Interest. - Rule 2016. Compensation for Services Rendered; Reimbursing Expenses. - Rule 2017. Examining Transactions Between a Debtor and the Debtor's Attorney. - Rule 2018. Intervention by an Interested Entity; Right to Be Heard. - Rule 2019. Disclosures by Groups, Committees, and Other Entities in a Chapter 9 or 11 Case. - Rule 2020. Reviewing an Act by a United States Trustee. - - PART III—CLAIMS AND DISTRIBUTION TO CREDITORS AND EQUITY INTEREST HOLDERS; PLANSRule 3001. Proof of Claim. - Rule 3002. Filing a Proof of Claim or Interest. - Rule 3002.1. Chapter 13—Claim Secured by a Security Interest in the Debtor's Principal Residence. - Rule 3003. Chapter 9 or 11—Filing a Proof of Claim or Equity Interest. - Rule 3004. Proof of Claim Filed by the Debtor or Trustee for a Creditor. - Rule 3005. Filing a Proof of Claim or Accepting or Rejecting a Plan by a Surety, Endorser, Guarantor, or Other Codebtor. - Rule 3006. Withdrawing a Proof of Claim; Effect on a Plan. - Rule 3007. Objecting to a Claim. - Rule 3008. Reconsidering an Order Allowing or Disallowing a Claim. - Rule 3009. Chapter 7—Paying Dividends. - Rule 3010. Chapter 7, Subchapter V of Chapter 11, Chapter 12, and Chapter 13—Limits on Small Dividends and Payments. - Rule 3011. Chapter 7, Subchapter V of Chapter 11, Chapter 12, and Chapter 13—Listing Unclaimed Funds. - Rule 3012. Determining the Amount of a Secured or Priority Claim. - Rule 3013. Determining Classes of Creditors and Equity Security Holders. - Rule 3014. Chapter 9 or 11—Secured Creditors' Election to Apply §1111(b). - Rule 3015. Chapter 12 or 13—Time to File a Plan; Nonstandard Provisions; Objection to Confirmation; Effect of Confirmation; Modifying a Plan. - Rule 3015.1. Requirements for a Local Form for a Chapter 13 Plan. - Rule 3016. Chapter 9 or 11—Plan and Disclosure Statement. - Rule 3017. Chapter 9 or 11—Hearing on a Disclosure Statement and Plan. - Rule 3017.1. Disclosure Statement in a Small Business Case or a Case Under Subchapter V of Chapter 11. - Rule 3017.2. Setting Dates in a Case Under Subchapter V of Chapter 11 in Which There Is No Disclosure Statement. - Rule 3018. Chapter 9 or 11—Accepting or Rejecting a Plan. - Rule 3019. Chapter 9 or 11—Modifying a Plan. - Rule 3020. In a Chapter 11 Case, Depositing Funds Before the Plan is Confirmed; Confirmation in a Chapter 9 or 11 Case. - Rule 3021. Distributing Funds Under a Plan. - Rule 3022. Chapter 11—Final Decree. - - PART IV—THE DEBTOR: DUTIES AND BENEFITSRule 4001. Relief from the Automatic Stay; Prohibiting or Conditioning the Use, Sale, or Lease of Property; Using Cash Collateral; Obtaining Credit; Various Agreements. - Rule 4002. Debtor's Duties. - Rule 4003. Exemptions. - Rule 4004. Granting or Denying a Discharge. - Rule 4005. Burden of Proof in Objecting to a Discharge. - Rule 4006. Notice When No Discharge Is Granted. - Rule 4007. Determining Whether a Debt Is Dischargeable. - Rule 4008. Reaffirmation Agreement and Supporting Statement. - - PART V—COURTS AND CLERKSRule 5001. Court Operations; Clerks' Offices. - Rule 5002. Restrictions on Approving Court Appointments. - Rule 5003. Records to Be Kept by the Clerk. - Rule 5004. Disqualifying a Bankruptcy Judge. - Rule 5005. Filing Papers and Sending Copies to the United States Trustee. - Rule 5006. Providing Certified Copies. - Rule 5007. Record of Proceedings; Transcripts. - Rule 5008. Chapter 7—Notice That a Presumption of Abuse Has Arisen Under §707(b). - Rule 5009. Closing a Chapter 7, 12, 13, or 15 Case; Declaring Liens Satisfied. - Rule 5010. Reopening a Case.
