---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/9-ways-to-stay-safe-on-social-media/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:01:51.508607+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:51 GMT
---
9 Ways to Stay Safe on Social Media Social media outlets such as Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram are great for staying in touch with family and friends, but remember: cyber-scammers and identity thieves are on those platforms too. Here are some guidelines on steering clear of them. 1. Lock Down Privacy Settings Check the settings in your social accounts to make sure your phone number and email addresses are hidden from public view. Here are a few platform-specific recommendations: Consider adjusting Facebook privacy settings to make your posts visible only to friends or friends of friends, rather than making them public. - Uncheck the "Discoverability" boxes in Twitter's safety and security controls to prevent searches using your email address and phone number. If you're only using Twitter for private communications (as opposed to business networking), consider checking the "Protect your tweets" box, which limits your posts' visibility to your followers. - On Instagram, if you plan to share personal images (and aren't promoting a business) consider setting your account to private. - 2. Use Text Messaging to Prevent Unauthorized Logins There was a time when it was considered prudent to exclude your phone number from your social network profiles, but that's a decision worth revisiting. Consider supplying your smartphone number to each platform, and requiring it to use text messaging to confirm your identity when you log in on a new device. This process, known as two factor authentication or login verification, can keep your accounts secure even if your username and password are stolen. Set up two-factor authentication on Facebook. Facebook also allows you to adjust various security settings, such as getting alerts for unrecognized logins (when someone logs in from a new device or web browser for the first time). - Enable login verification on Twitter. - Activate two factor authentication on Instagram - 3. Be Discreet About Your Whereabouts Take care to avoid sharing your street address, which can help thieves target your home. Also, be careful about broadcasting when you're traveling for extended periods when your vacant home could become a target. Bear in mind that you can disclose this information inadvertently, without typing a thing, if you allow your posts or images to be tagged with your location. To prevent that, you can disable location tagging: In Twitter, uncheck the "Tweet with location" box on the "Privacy and safety" settings page. For the Facebook and Instagram mobile apps, you must go to your phone's settings, find location services, and disable them for the Facebook and Instagram apps. (The process may differ somewhat from one manufacturer's phone to the next; if you have trouble finding the settings for your phone, consult your phone's user guide or online help pages.) 4. Avoid (and Report) Duplicate Friend Requests If you receive a request to connect with someone you know, but who you thought was already a friend or follower, double-check your friends-list before accepting the invitation. If the sender is already on your list, chances are good their account has been hacked. Scammers use bogus accounts cloned from real users to collect "friends," and rely on these "mutual friends" to extend their fake networks. The fake account may use photos from your friend's real account to trick you as well. Facebook has a provision for reporting these impostors that automatically notifies the friend who's being impersonated as part of the process. - On Twitter and Instagram, impersonated persons have to report phony accounts themselves, so message your followers to let them know they're being misrepresented. - 5. Don't Use Social Credentials to Sign Into Third-Party Sites Many third-party websites give you the option of registering using Facebook, Google or Twitter credentials instead of setting up new usernames and passwords. These shortcuts are tempting, especially when you're eager to place an order or join a discussion, but think twice.
