---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
Fund Transfer Act. (5) The terms “credit” and “creditor” have the same meanings as in section 702 of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act. (s) The term “Federal banking agency” has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. (t) The term “financial institution” means a State or National bank, a State or Federal savings and loan association, a mutual savings bank, a State or Federal credit union, or any other person that, directly or indirectly, holds a transaction account (as defined in section 19(b) of the Federal Reserve Act) belonging to a consumer. (u) The term “reseller” means a consumer reporting agency that – (1) assembles and merges information contained in the database of another consumer reporting agency or multiple consumer reporting agencies concerning any consumer for purposes of furnishing such information to any third party, to the extent of such activities; and (2) does not maintain a database of the assembled or merged information from which new consumer reports are produced. (v) The term “Commission” means the Federal Trade Commission. (w) The term “Bureau” means the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. (x) The term “nationwide specialty consumer reporting agency” means a consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintains files on consumers on a nationwide basis relating to – (1) medical records or payments; (2) residential or tenant history; (3) check writing history; § 603 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681a 9 (4) employment history; or (5) insurance claims. (y) Exclusion of Certain Communications for Employee Investigations (1) A communication is described in this subsection if – (A) but for subsection (d)(2)(D), the communication would be a consumer report; (B) the communication is made to an employer in connection with an investigation of – (i) suspected misconduct relating to employment; or (ii) compliance with Federal, State, or local laws and regulations, the rules of a self-regulatory organization, or any preexisting written policies of the employer; (C) the communication is not made for the purpose of investigating a consumer’s credit worthiness, credit standing, or credit capacity; and (D) the communication is not provided to any person except – (i) to the employer or an agent of the employer; (ii) to any Federal or State officer, agency, or department, or any officer, agency, or department of a unit of general local government; (iii) to any self-regulatory organization with regulatory authority over the activities of the employer or employee; (iv) as otherwise required by law; or (v) pursuant to section 608. (2) Subsequent disclosure . After taking any adverse action based in whole or in part on a communication described in paragraph (1), the employer shall disclose to the consumer a summary containing the nature and substance of the communication upon which the adverse action is based, except that the sources of information acquired solely for use in preparing what would be but for subsection (d)(2)(D) an investigative consumer report need not be disclosed. (3) For purposes of this subsection, the term “self-regulatory organization” includes any self-regulatory organization (as defined in section 3(a) (26) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), any entity established under title I of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, any board of trade designated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and any futures association registered with such Commission. (z) Veteran. The term ‘veteran’ has the meaning given the term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code. 10§ 603 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681a (aa) Veteran’s medical debt. The term ‘veteran’s medical debt’ (1) means a medical collection debt of a veteran owed to a non-Department of Veterans Affairs health care provider that was submitted to the Department for payment for health care authorized by the Department of Veterans Affairs; and (2) includes medical collection debt that the Department of Veterans Affairs has wrongfully charged a veteran. § 604. Permissible purposes of consumer reports
