---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/events
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:56:07.580673+00:00
last_updated: Mon, 09 Feb 2026 07:54:49 GMT
---
We regularly host workshops, webinars, social media chats, conferences, and other events on topics related to our mission to protect consumers and promote competition. Examples include our annual PrivacyCon and Microeconomics conferences and workshops on vertical mergers, voice cloning, and identity theft. Find information on past and future FTC events and speaking engagements involving FTC officials. Displaying 1 - 20 of 1715 Mar19 March 19, 2026 - March 20, 2026 The Federal Trade Commission’s Bureau of Economics will host the Third Federal Trade Commission Conference on Marketing and Public Policy on March 19-20, 2026 in Washington, D.C. This event will bring... Feb26 - Registration is required to attend in person. Please register at the Workshop on Consumer Injuries and Benefits in the Data-Driven Economy registration page . The Workshop on Consumer Injuries and... Feb24 February 24, 2026 - February 25, 2026 New Date – Rescheduled from November 2025 The Federal Trade Commission's Bureau of Economics and the Tobin Center for Economic Policy at Yale University will host the 18th Annual FTC Microeconomics... Feb25 National Consumer Protection Week (NCPW) is just around the corner! Every year, it falls on the first full week of March, so this year it’s March 1 – 7. The Federal Trade Commission leads the national... Feb05 - National Consumer Protection Week (NCPW) is just around the corner! Every year, it falls on the first full week of March, so this year it’s March 1 – 7. The Federal Trade Commission leads the national... Feb04 - Evidentiary Hearing before ALJ Jay L. Himes In the Matter of Eusebio Juarez-Rufino, Docket 9444 Dial-in Number: TBD Open to the Public Feb03 - National Consumer Protection Week (NCPW) 2026 is March 1-7. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) invites you to celebrate NCPW at your library. NCPW is a great time to share information with your... Jan30 - National Consumer Protection Week (NCPW) is just around the corner! Every year, it falls on the first full week of March, so this year it’s March 1 – 7. The Federal Trade Commission leads the national... Jan28 - The Age Verification Workshop will bring together a diverse group of stakeholders, including researchers, academics, industry representatives, consumer advocates, and government regulators, to discuss... Jan28 - Identity theft can happen anytime and at any age. Whether you’re working or retired, building your credit or have a lifetime of experience, identity thieves will target anyone. But taking steps to... Jan27 - This workshop will focus on employee noncompete agreements, and will include public statements from FTC Commissioners, victims of unfair and anticompetitive noncompete agreements, and leading experts... Jan27 Identity theft can happen to anyone and every year it’s one of the top problems reported to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). This Identity Theft Awareness Week, join the Association of Bookmobile... Jan26 Identity thieves target military servicemembers, veterans, and their families in specific ways — often going after your hard-earned benefits. Join representatives from the FTC and the U.S. Department... Jan21 In 2024, Americans lost nearly $13 billion to fraud, according to reports to the FTC. Imposter scams are constantly the top reported fraud, and complex schemes involving government and business... Dec09 - The FTC partners with libraries across the country to share free resources on how to spot, avoid, and report scams. Got questions about a consumer protection topic? Want to brainstorm about... Dec09 - Commission Meeting Closed to the Public: Consideration of a nonpublic law enforcement matter, 10:00 AM EDT. The vote to close the meeting for the law enforcement matter was 2-0. Expected to attend the... Oct21 Your patrons have rights in the marketplace. Learn the basics on consumer protection topics including: debt collection, planning a funeral, online shopping, and more. Join the Federal Trade Commission... Oct07 In 2024, Americans lost nearly $13 billion to fraud, according to reports to the FTC. Imposter scams
