---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/051915/how-does-insurance-sector-work.asp
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:35.659405+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
features of insurance companies is that they are essentially allowed to use their customers' money to invest for themselves. This makes them similar to banks, but investing happens to an even greater extent. This is sometimes referred to as "the float." Float occurs when one party extends money to another party and does not expect repayment until after a circumstantial event. This mechanism essentially means insurance companies have a positive cost of capital. This distinguishes them from private equity funds, banks, and mutual funds. For investors in stock insurance companies (or policyholders in mutual companies), this means the potential for lower-risk, stable returns. Insurance plans are the principal product of the sector. However, recent decades have brought a number of corporate pension plans to businesses and annuities to retirees. This places insurance companies in direct competition with other financial asset providers on these types of products. Many insurance companies now have their own broker-dealer either in-house or in partnership. Exploring Different Types of Insurance Companies Not all insurance companies offer the same products or cater to the same customer base. Among the largest categories of insurance companies are accident and health insurers; property and casualty insurers; and financial guarantors. The most common types of personal insurance policies are auto, health, homeowners, and life. Most individuals in the United States have at least one of these types of insurance, and car insurance is required by law. Accident and health companies are probably the most well-known. These include companies such as UnitedHealth Group, Anthem, Aetna and AFLAC, which are designed to help people who have been physically harmed. Life insurance companies mainly issue policies that pay a death benefit as a lump sum upon the death of the insured to their beneficiaries. Life insurance policies may be sold as term life, which is less expensive and expires at the end of the term or permanent (typically whole life or universal life), which is more expensive but lasts a lifetime and carries a cash accumulation component. Life insurers may also sell long-term disability policies that replace the insured's income if they become sick or disabled. Well-known life insurers include Northwestern Mutual, Guardian, Prudential, and William Penn. Property and casualty companies insure against accidents of non-physical harm. This can include lawsuits, damage to personal assets, car crashes and more. Large property and casualty insurers include State Farm, Nationwide and Allstate. Businesses require special types of insurance policies that insure against specific types of risks faced by a particular business. For example, a fast-food restaurant needs a policy that covers damage or injury that occurs as a result of cooking with a deep fryer. An auto dealer is not subject to this type of risk but does require coverage for damage or injury that could occur during test drives. Niche Insurance Companies and Specialties There are also insurance policies available for very specific needs, such as kidnap and ransom (K&R), medical malpractice, and professional liability insurance, also known as errors and omissions insurance. Some companies engage in reinsurance to reduce risk. Reinsurance is insurance that insurance companies buy to protect themselves from excessive losses due to high exposure. Reinsurance is an integral component of insurance companies' efforts to keep themselves solvent and to avoid default due to payouts, and regulators mandate it for companies of a certain size and type. For example, an insurance company may write too much hurricane insurance, based on models that show low chances of a hurricane inflicting a geographic area. If the inconceivable did happen with a hurricane hitting that region, considerable losses for the insurance company could ensue. Without reinsurance taking some of the risks off the table, insurance companies could go out of business whenever a natural disaster hits. Investopedia / Hilary Allison Comparing Mutual and Stock Insurance Companies Insurance companies are classified as either stock or mutual
