---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/understanding-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:03:59.962173+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
own request for a copy of your credit history. Your credit score will factor in the length of time since creditors made credit report inquiries. Length of credit history: 5-7% - This section details how long you’ve had your credit accounts. The credit score calculation includes both how long your oldest and most recent accounts have been open. In general, creditors like to see that you’ve been able to properly handle credit accounts over a period of time. What are the benefits of knowing your VantageScore 3.0 credit score? Reading time: 2 minutes Continue Reading Credit card companies and mortgage lenders pull credit scores to use as one of the factors to determine your creditworthiness or credit risk. Financial services companies tend to group borrowers into segments according to their credit score. These credit score ranges may determine how much you’ll be charged, the interest rate you will pay on your mortgage, student loan, or automobile loan, or the type of credit card you’ll be offered. You can check your monthly VantageScore credit score for free with an Equifax Core Credit™ account. Why Should I Check my Credit Reports and Credit Scores? Reading time: 4 minutes Continue Reading Find out how credit scores are calculated There are time frames for how long different types of information may remain on your credit report. Negative information, such as late payments or collections, may stay on your credit report for approximately seven years. Bankruptcies can stay on your credit report for up to 10 years, depending on the type of bankruptcy. - Positive information generally remains on your credit report for a longer period of time. Credit accounts that you pay as agreed may stay on your credit report for up to 10 years from the last update we receive from the lender. Revolving credit accounts, such as credit cards that have been paid as agreed, may stay on your credit report as long as you keep the account open. - How Long Does Information Stay on My Equifax Credit Report? Reading time: 3 minutes Continue Reading There are a few ways to get your free credit reports. You can access your Equifax credit reports online with a free myEquifax account. You can also get a free monthly Equifax VantageScore credit score by enrolling in Equifax Core Credit™. You can also receive your Equifax credit report by calling Equifax Customer Care at 888-EQUIFAX. Your free credit reports from each of the nationwide credit reporting agencies - Equifax, Experian and TransUnion - are available at annualcreditreport.com. These free credit reports can be requested online, by phone, or by mail. Please note that credit reports do not include your credit scores. ¿Desea su informe de crédito de Equifax en español? Equifax se complace en ofrecer un informe de crédito traducido al español una vez cada siete días. Another way you can receive a copy of your free credit report from the three nationwide credit reporting agencies is if you meet one of the requirements listed below, as outlined in the Fair Credit Reporting Act. This law indicates that if you meet one of these requirements, You may be able to receive additional copies of your credit reports, if: You are unemployed and intend to apply for employment within 60 days; - You are receiving public welfare assistance; - You believe your credit report has inaccurate information due to fraud; - You have been denied credit or insurance within the past 60 days; - You have placed a fraud alert on your credit reports; and - Your state offers a free or reduced-price credit report. - If any of these situations apply to you, you can request your additional free copy of a credit report. How Do I Get My Free Credit Report? Reading time: 3 minutes Continue Reading Find out what information goes into a
