---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/20-types-of-identity-theft-and-fraud/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:50.839144+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:50 GMT
---
stop without explanation, look into the possibility of title fraud. You can also verify the status of your home title with your county's deed office or use a commercial title protection company to safeguard its status. Tip: If you're interested in title protection, be sure to research providers yourself. An unsolicited offer from such a company could be a scam. 15. Passport Fraud Passport fraud is when a criminal uses a lost or stolen passport to commit identity theft, possibly by impersonating a victim or creating false travel documents. How this type of fraud happens: Criminals may use stolen passports to enter a country illegally or carry out financial crimes, such as smuggling. Also, because a passport is a legal ID, they also could use it to impersonate you. For example, they could attempt to open a bank account or commit other fraud in your name. In some cases, criminals may also use the identity of a deceased person to apply for a passport. How to avoid it: At home, secure your passport in a safe or safe deposit box. When traveling, store your passport in a secure wallet and keep it on your person or in a hotel safe. If your passport is lost or stolen, you can invalidate it by reporting it missing. If you're out of the country, contact your local embassy or consulate for assistance. Learn more: How to Protect Yourself From Passport Scams 16. Internet of Things Identity Fraud This fraud takes advantage of security flaws in your internet-connected devices to go after your personal data. How this type of fraud happens: The internet of things (IoT) refers to smart appliances, thermostats, TVs and digital assistant speakers that communicate over the internet via your home network. Security flaws in your home devices can create an opening for criminals to hack into your network, steal your personal data, or make unauthorized purchases using your credentials. How to avoid it: Securing your home's network, including your Wi-Fi router, is a good place to start. Reset default passwords for all devices and replace them with unique, secure ones. Then, change your passwords out at least annually (when you change your smoke alarm batteries, for example). 17. Friendly Fraud Merchants and credit card issuers use the term "friendly fraud" to distinguish chargeback theft by legitimate cardholders from those of unfriendly thieves who use stolen credentials. How this type of fraud happens: Friendly fraud occurs when a cardholder makes an online purchase via credit card, receives the order, then obtains a refund by falsely claiming the item was never delivered or that it was defective or otherwise not as the seller described. Friendly fraud can also occur unintentionally if a family member or other person with permission to use a card misuses it and then denies having done so, prompting the cardholder to reverse a legitimate charge. How to avoid it: The main way you can avoid friendly fraud is ensuring you only dispute credit card charges that you're confident are fraudulent. Being aware of when and how others use your card can help prevent the accidental kind of friendly fraud. 18. Employment Fraud In employment fraud, a scammer lures job seekers into giving up personal information or money using fake job opportunities. How this type of fraud happens: Employment fraud preys on job seekers by recruiting victims to "lucrative" nonexistent positions. Then, they tell you that you must pay to finalize the hiring process. They may ask you to purchase safety equipment, training materials, uniforms or other bogus goods or services. Once they have your money, the recruiters vanish without a trace. How to avoid it: If approached with a job prospect via email, text or social media, do not respond until you do some investigating. Contact the hiring company or recruiter directly (using a phone number or email
