---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-the-difference-between-fico-score-and-credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:29.037910+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:28 GMT
---
bank account or utility accounts, respectively. - Most FICOÂ® Scores range from 300 to 850, but industry-specific scores have a 250 to 900 range. With all the scores, having a higher score is better because it indicates a person is less likely to miss a payment. Get your FICOÂ® ScoreÎÂ for free What Is a Credit Score? A credit score is the numerical output of a credit scoring model. It's an easy-to-read and relatively easy-to-understand way to assess creditworthiness. The inner workings of each credit scoring model differ. However, most credit scoring models try to predict the likelihood that someone will fall 90 days behind on a bill within the next 24 months. A higher credit score means someone is less likely to miss a payment, but credit scores don't directly correlate with the likelihood of missing a payment. Example: It's not as if someone with a 760 credit score has an X% chance of missing a payment and someone with a 700 score has a Y% chance. Instead, on average, someone with a 760 credit score is less likely to miss a debt payment than someone with a 700 credit score, and more likely to miss a payment than people with scores over 760. What Do Credit Scores Consider? Each credit scoring model might use different weights and factors to calculate a credit score. However, most credit scores try to predict the same thing and use similar data sources: Your credit history: Most FICOÂ® Scores and VantageScore credit scores only consider information from one of your credit reports from a national credit bureauâExperian, TransUnion or Equifaxâwhen calculating a specific score. - Alternative, non-credit data: Some scores consider additional information, such as the UltraFICOÂ® and FICO XD scores mentioned above. The VantageScore 4plusâ¢ model can also consider a person's banking history. - Proprietary data: Creditors' scores may also consider proprietary information, such as your history with the company. - As a result, although your credit scores can differ, many people's credit scores tend to move up or down in tandem over time. Learn more: Facts About Credit You May Not Know Why Do I Have Different FICOÂ® Scores? You can have different FICOÂ® Scores for several reasons: FICOÂ® Scores only analyze one of your credit reports at a time. A FICOÂ® Score analyzes the information in one of your credit reports to calculate a score. However, it's common for your credit reports from Experian, TransUnion and Equifax to differ. As a result, your FICOÂ® Score 10âor any other type of FICOÂ® Scoreâcould be different depending on which of your reports it's scoring. - FICO regularly releases new versions of its scoring models. The new FICOÂ® Score models may incorporate changes in consumer behavior, new regulations and technological advances. As a result, your FICOÂ® Score 9 and FICOÂ® Score 10 can differ even if they're both based on your Experian credit report. - The FICOÂ® Scores you're checking were calculated at different times. Different services might offer you several FICOÂ® Score versions based on one or more credit reports. However, you also have to check when the scores are updated. Because credit scores are calculated at the moment they're requested, your scores can differ because of changes in your credit reportâeven from hour to hour. - You may also have different credit scores if you're comparing one of your FICOÂ® Scores to a VantageScore credit score. What Is My Real Credit Score? There is no single "real" credit score. Companies can choose which credit scores to use when reviewing applications and managing customers' accounts, and you won't necessarily know which score a company will use ahead of time. Example: When you're shopping for an auto loan, you may try to get offers from several lenders. One lender might use a FICOÂ® Score 9, another a FICO Auto Score 10 and a
