---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/why-would-you-want-a-good-credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:51.502751+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:35 GMT
---
6 Reasons You Want a Good Credit Score Quick Answer A good credit score can mean access to better borrowing terms and lower interest rates, but it also brings other benefits like lower insurance rates, access to better credit cards and greater options for renting houses or apartments. Many of us only think about what our credit scores can do for us when we borrow money via loans, credit cards and other forms of personal credit. However, a good credit scoreâgenerally defined as 700 or greater on the FICOÂ® ScoreÎ for free through Experian scaleâoffers many additional benefits. Let's review. 6 Reasons You Want a Good Credit Score Lenders consider credit scores when deciding who they'll approve for creditâand in other decisions as well. They aren't only ones who use credit scores, either, and your score can affect your finances in several ways. Here, then, are some of the dollars-and-cents benefits to having a good credit score: 1. Significant Savings on Interest Borrowers with the highest credit scores generally have access to the lowest interest rates available on mortgages and auto loans, and a lower rate can translate to big savings. When you finance a big purchase, small differences in your financing rate can translate into thousands (or tens of thousands) of dollars in interest charges over the life of the loan. For example, according to the Experian mortgage calculator, a 30-year mortgage on a $400,000 house with a 10% down payment and a fixed interest rate of 7.31% will cost a borrower a total of $889,381 in principal and interest over the life of the loan. If that same borrower can get an interest rate of 6.31%â1 percentage point lowerâthey will pay $803,034 over the life of the loan, a savings of $86,347. Mortgage calculator 2. Better Terms and Access to Loan Products Lenders commonly use credit score "cut-offs" as preliminary eligibility screens when deciding what type of loan they will offer youâif they'll offer any loan at all. Each lender sets its own lending criteria, but, for example, a hypothetical mortgage issuer might have a policy of refusing loan applicants with FICOÂ® Scores below 620, offering only adjustable-rate mortgages to applicants with scores between 620 and 699, and fixed-rate loans only to applicants with scores above 700. A lender might further segment its fixed-rate loan offers, offering its very best interest rates only to borrowers with FICOÂ® Scores of, say, 760 or better. Specific cut-offs will vary by lender (which is one reason you should always do rate shopping when looking for a loan), but in general, you gain access to more favorable loan terms and options as your credit scores increase. 3. Access to the Best Credit Card Rewards Like mortgage and auto lenders, credit card issuers use credit score cut-offs in decisions about which cards you qualify for. To a far greater extent than other lenders, card issuers also use credit scores to promote their products. When you receive a prescreened credit card offer, it's likely that your credit scores indicate a good chance of qualifying for the card. Offers for the most exclusive rewards cardsâthose with the most generous mileage, accommodation, points or cash back rewards are typically only available to borrowers with high credit scores. What's more, many are only marketed directly to candidates who qualify for them. Note that a good score may not guarantee approval for these offersâcard issuers, like other lenders, typically consider your income and other debts as well as scores when making credit offersâbut approval odds are in your favor if you're targeted with a card offer. 4. Insurance Discounts Car insurance companies in many states use specialized credit-based insurance scores to help decide whom they'll cover and what premium they'll charge a given policyholder. Insurance scores are not the same as those lenders use for credit applications, but
