---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/what-is-a-secured-credit-card/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:42.114265+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:20:17 GMT
---
can limit your options. Adding a secured credit card can fatten up your thin file and diversify your credit mix, which could help improve your credit score. - You're trying to rebuild your credit. Maxed-out credit cards, collection accounts and other negative marks on your credit report can make lenders wary. Secured credit cards pose less risk for card issuers, so they're typically more accessible even with bad credit. Once you've been approved, using the card responsibly can help repair your credit. - Your applications for unsecured credit cards have been rejected. If you've been denied a credit card for whatever reason, the required deposit for a secured credit card can make approval more likely. - Learn more: What Is the Easiest Credit Card to Get With No Credit? How to Get a Secured Credit Card To get a secured credit card, follow these steps. Check your credit score. You can review your Experian credit report and get your FICOÂ® ScoreÎ for free to see where you stand. - Compare secured credit cards. Experian's card comparison tool matches you with secured credit cards based on your credit profile. As you compare secured credit card options, consider credit limits, security deposits and refund policies, APRs and fees. Also evaluate any cardholder perks such as cash back, points and miles. - Confirm account reporting. Look for a card issuer that reports your account usage to all three major credit bureaus. Reporting to all of the credit bureaus will maximize your benefits from using your card responsibly. - Complete an application. You can apply for a credit card online through Experian's card comparison feature or on the card issuer's website. - Open your account. If approved, you'll need to pay your security deposit and any fees required to open your account. You can typically pay by debit or electronic transfer from your bank account. Have your banking information handy and make sure there's enough in the account to cover what you'll owe. - Tip: If you hope to eventually convert your secured credit card to an unsecured card, confirm that the card issuer offers unsecured credit cards before you apply. Learn more: What to Do if You're Denied a Secured Credit Card Start building your credit How to Build Credit With a Secured Credit Card The following good habits can help you build credit with a secured credit card. Make small purchases each month. Using your card regularly and making payments on time demonstrates responsible credit use. Consider using the card to pay a small monthly bill, such as a streaming subscription. - Pay your bill on time. Making timely payments can benefit your credit score, but late payments will hurt it. You may want to set up autopay for your credit card bill payments so you won't miss a due date. Be sure to keep enough money in your bank account to cover the payment. - Keep credit utilization low. Your credit utilization ratio measures the percentage of your available credit that you're currently using. Lower is better for credit scores; a utilization rate over about 30% can have a greater negative effect on scores. If your secured credit card has a $300 limit, for example, aim to keep your balance below $90. Making multiple payments in a month can help keep your utilization down. - Monitor your spending. Using your credit card provider's mobile app to keep an eye on your balance can help keep you from running up a high balance that could be difficult to pay off. - Pay off your balance each month. Carrying a balance could push your credit utilization higher, potentially harming your credit score. It also incurs interest, which compounds daily and can quickly snowball. - Keep tabs on your credit score. Some secured credit cards offer free credit monitoring. You can also sign up
