---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/preventing-fraud/victim-assistance/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:09.419725+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
LLC | Learn more: Fraud Alert vs. Credit Freeze: What's the Difference? 4. Dispute Inaccurate Information If identity theft has affected your credit report, disputing erroneous information is your next step. Because your credit report is the basis for your credit score, inaccurate information could hurt your credit. You have the right to dispute the items on your credit report online, by mail or over the phone with each of the national credit bureaus. The information will be investigated and verified, updated or deleted from your report depending on the results. Each credit bureau has its own procedure for filing a dispute. If the same inaccuracy appears on multiple credit reports, you must submit disputes to each bureau separately. Experian | TransUnion | Equifax | ---|---|---| Online | Dispute website | Dispute website | Dispute website | ---|---|---|---| ExperianP.O. Box 4500 Allen, TX 75013 | TransUnion Consumer SolutionsP.O. Box 2000 Chester, PA 19016-2000 | Equifax Information Services, LLCP.O. Box 740256 Atlanta, GA 30374-0256 | Phone | Call the phone number listed on your Experian credit report | 800-916-8800 | 888-378-4329 | ---|---|---|---| Additional Identity Theft Resources If you think you may be a victim of identity theft, the following resources can help: Experian Fraud Division: 888-397-3742 - Equifax Fraud Division: 800-525-6285 - TransUnion Fraud Division: 800-680-7289 - Identity Theft Resource Center (ITRC) - Frequently Asked Questions The Bottom Line If identity theft has impacted your finances, there are resources to help you recover. Staying vigilant for signs of identity theft can help you spot red flags. Experian's free credit monitoring alerts you of changes to your credit report that could signal fraud. You can also get a free one-time dark web scan from Experian to see if your sensitive information is on the dark web. Paid premium memberships for some identity monitoring services offer additional types of monitoring, such as financial account and Social Security number monitoring, which can provide extra peace of mind. They may also provide fraud resolution support and identity theft insurance to help cover the cost of recovering from identity theft. Monitor your credit for free Credit monitoring can help you detect possible identity fraud, and can prevent surprises when you apply for credit. Get daily notifications when changes are detected. Get free monitoringAbout the author Karen Axelton is Experianâs in-house senior personal finance writer. She has over 20 years of experience as a journalist and has written or ghostwritten content for a variety of financial services companies. Read more from Karen
