---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-check-credit-report-and-file-disputes/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:12.730772+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:41 GMT
---
How to Check Your Credit Report and File Disputes Quick Answer You can check all three of your credit reports for accuracy by reviewing each of your reports closely and comparing them to previous copies of your credit reports. If you find information you believe to be inaccurate, you have the right to easily file a dispute online. You can check your credit reports for accuracy by closely reviewing each section of your reports and comparing them to your financial records and previous copies of your credit reports. When doing so, look for information you believe to be outdated or inaccurate. These occurrences aren't common, but they can happen. You have the right to dispute the items on your credit report, which could result in potential inaccuracies being updated, deleted or verified. How to Check Your Credit Report You can check your credit reports from each of the three major credit bureausâExperian, TransUnion and Equifaxâfor free. An easy way to check your Experian credit report is with a free account. You'll also receive a FICOÂ® ScoreÎ based on your credit report and explanations for what's impacting your credit score the most. You'll receive notifications whenever there's an important change to your credit report, and you can review an updated Experian credit report every day when you log in to your account. You can also get a free copy of your credit reports at AnnualCreditReport.com. There are additional circumstances when you can receive a free copy of your report, such as when you're denied credit or believe you're the victim of fraud. What to Look for When You Review Your Credit Report There are different sections in your credit reports, and you can look for changes or inaccuracies within each one. Personal information: Look for incorrect information related to your name, aliases, addresses, phone numbers, employers and other personal information. For security reasons, Experian doesn't list your real Social Security number on your credit report, but you may see variationsâwhich could be the result of typos. - Inquiries: A hard inquiry could appear whenever you apply for a new credit account. You might see inquiries from organizations that you don't recognize, as the companies' names are sometimes shortened, or they might use a parent company's name. But if you're certain you didn't apply for a new credit account or credit limit increase, the hard inquiry might be a sign of identity theft. - Accounts: Your open credit accounts include revolving and installment accounts, such as credit cards, loans and lines of credit. Make sure there aren't any accounts that you didn't open. And review your accounts to make sure the balance, credit limit or loan amount, payment history and other aspects of each account are accurate. However, because of when creditors send updates to the credit bureaus, it's common for there to be differences between your current balances and information on your credit reports. - Closed accounts: Closed credit accounts can stay on your credit report for up to 10 years if they were in good standing when they were closed. If an account was delinquent when closed, it will be removed seven years after the first late payment (the original delinquency date) in the series of late payments that led to the closure. Reviewing your closed accounts is important because they can still affect your credit scores. - Collections: Accounts that are sold to a collection agency appear as a separate account on your credit report. Unpaid collection accounts are removed from your credit report seven years after the account first went delinquent. - Public records: The public records section could include bankruptcy filing records. These can stay on your credit report for up to 10 years for a Chapter 7 bankruptcy or seven years for a Chapter 13 bankruptcy. - Look over the information within each section to see
