---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/score-basics/780-credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:34.721738+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:20 GMT
---
of your FICO® Score. Timely bill payments. This may seem obvious, but there's no greater influence on your FICO® Score: Late and missed payments hurt your credit score, and on-time payments benefit your score. Payment history accounts for as much as 35% of your FICO® Score. Credit mix. The FICO® scoring system generally favors borrowers with a variety of credit, including both installment loans (e.g., mortgages and car loans, with fixed payments and finite repayment schedules) and revolving credit (e.g., credit cards, which let you borrow within a specific credit limit and pay back using variable payment amounts). Credit mix can influence up to 10% of your FICO® Score. 62% of individuals with a 780 FICO® Score have credit portfolios that include auto loan. 56% have a mortgage. Recent credit activity. When you apply for a loan or credit card, the lender requests your credit score (and often your credit report as well) to help decide if they want to issue you credit. This, process known as a hard inquiry, typically has a short-term negative effect on your credit score. (Checking your own credit is a soft inquiry and does not impact your credit score.) Your score typically recovers from hard inquiries within a few months, as long as you keep up with your bills. Recent credit activity can account for up to 10% of your FICO® Score. Length of credit history. Age has some rewards, and one of them may be a boost in credit score. The longer you've been using credit and paying bills, the better your credit score will tend to be, when all other factors are the same. If you're new to the credit market, there's little you can do to control this. But if you build a record of timely payments and good credit decisions, your score will tend to rise over time. Length of credit history can constitute up to 15% of your FICO® Score. Public records can outweigh all other factors and severely lower your credit score. These entries, which can include bankruptcies, do not appear in every credit report, so they cannot be compared to other score influences on a percentage basis. But a bankruptcy, for example, can persist on your credit report for 10 years, and many lenders may refuse to do business with you for much of that time, no matter how well you manage the other behaviors that affect your credit score. Shield your credit score from fraud For hackers and identity thieves, people with Very Good credit scores are attractive targets. Your score could enable crooks to open and exploit sizable bogus loan or credit-card account in your name, and then disappear, leaving you to sort out the mess with the lender. To help avoid this, consider credit-monitoring and identity theft protection services. These services can alert you when they detect applications for new credit or other unexpected changes in your credit report. Credit monitoring is also useful for tracking changes in your credit scores. It can prompt you to action in case your score starts to slip downward, and help you mark progress toward a FICO® Score in the Exceptional range (800-850). Consumers reported $905 million in total fraud losses in 2017, a 21.6% increase over 2016 with an average of $429 lost. Learn more about your credit score A 780 credit score is Very Good, but it can be even better. If you can elevate your score into the Exceptional range (800-850), you could become eligible for the very best lending terms, including the lowest interest rates and fees, and the most enticing credit-card rewards programs. A great place to begin is getting your credit score to find out the specific factors that impact your score the most. Read more about score ranges and what a good credit score is.
