---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/identity-theft/articles/-/learn/what-is-phishing-what-is-smishing/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:05:03.551163+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
What Are Phishing and Smishing? What are phishing and smishing and how can you avoid falling victim? Click here to learn more about how to spot phishing scams and how to protect yourself with help from Equifax! [Duration - 2:41] Highlights: Online scammers may use phishing and smishing tactics in an attempt to snare your personal or financial information. - While some phishing and smishing messages are obviously sent by strangers, others may look like communications from legitimate, trusted organizations. - It's important to learn how to evaluate a message before you click on a link or open an attachment. - Phishing and smishing are common strategies used by online scammers to steal personal and financial information. If you're one of the millions of Americans who regularly use email, text and other virtual messaging platforms, it's vital to understand and recognize signs of potential phishing and smishing attacks. What is phishing? Phishing messages are fraudulent messages used by scammers to trick you into clicking a link or opening an attachment that will provide them access to your information or download malware onto your computer. Phishing messages may look legitimate. They may come in the form of a communication that seems to be from your bank, credit card company, a company you do business with or even your employer. Others may seem to come from a familiar social networking site, an online store or an online payment website or app. These messages may tell you there's a problem with your account or payment information, or that some suspicious activity or login attempts have taken place. They may also include a fake invoice or ask you to update or confirm personal information. The goal of phishing is to get you to take the bait, whether that's logging in to your account directly from the message (giving hackers access to your password), clicking on a link or opening an attachment. How to recognize phishing While some phishing messages may obviously come from strangers, others may appear to come from an organization you know and trust. Look closely at any messages you receive and ask yourself the following: Do you have an account with the business that's contacting you? If so, does the email address match the address associated with your account? Did you sign up to receive email discounts from this company? - If the message claims to be from an individual, do you know this person? - Does the message greeting address you by name? - Did the email come to your junk or spam folder? - If you hover over the sender's email address and any links in the message, where do they lead and do they look legitimate? - If there are attachments, did they come from a trusted contact and do you know what they are? - Are there misspellings and awkward grammar throughout the message? - Are you being asked for a payment you aren't sure you owe? - Are you being threatened with lawsuits and penalties if you don't immediately take action? - Don't click on any links or attachments in messages if you can't verify they are legitimate. Even if the sender claims to be from a company you know and do business with, do not click on a link in the email to log in to your account; instead, go to the company's website to log in. It's also important to know that most financial institutions and government agencies will not request personal information through emails, texts or other types of messages. How to help protect yourself from phishing emails Your spam or junk mail filters may keep some phishing messages out of your inbox, but as scammers and hackers constantly try to get past those filters, you might consider some other ways to help protect yourself. These might include: Use security software. Install security
