---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-to-repair-credit/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:02:14.719437+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:50 GMT
---
to qualify for. For example, you can compare personal loans that you're likely to qualify for based on your credit profile. That way, you can get a sense of what rates and terms you have the best odds of being approved for, without doing damage to your credit. 8. Keep Unused Credit Accounts Open After paying off a high credit card balance, closing the card might seem like a smart move. But closing a credit card can negatively affect your credit score by reducing the amount of revolving credit available to you, which could instantly increase your credit utilization rate. Even if you don't plan to use them, it's generally a good idea to keep unused credit cards open. If you don't want to pay an annual fee on a card you use rarely, ask your card issuer to consider downgrading your card to one without a fee. If you're afraid that you'll run up balances on these paid-off accounts again, remove card details from your online shopping accounts and leave the physical cards at home to reduce the risk you'll use them. 9. Apply for a Secured Credit Card A secured credit card works just like a regular credit card, with one key difference: It requires a security deposit. To open the account, you put down a refundable security deposit (as little as a few hundred dollars), which typically determines your credit limit. If you don't pay your bill, the credit card issuer uses your deposit to pay it. The security deposit lowers the credit card company's risk, making it easier for you to get the secured credit card even with poor credit. Use the card for small purchases to avoid reaching your credit limit. Paying the balance on time and in full each month can help improve your credit score. In some cases, your card issuer may let you upgrade to an unsecured credit card after a period proving yourself to be a responsible borrower. Learn more: How to Get a Secured Credit Card 10. Consider a Credit-Builder Loan As the name implies, credit-builder loans are designed to help build or rebuild your credit score. Usually for amounts of $1,000 or less with repayment terms between six and 24 months, credit-builder loans work a bit differently than traditional loans. The money you borrow is kept in a savings account or certificate of deposit while you repay the loan in fixed monthly payments. As you pay back the credit-builder loan principal plus interest, your payment history is reported to the three major consumer credit bureaus. Making timely payments demonstrates financial responsibility and could help improve your credit score. When the loan is paid in full, you'll receive the money in the account. One caveat: Be sure your lender reports to all three credit reporting agenciesânot all do. 11. Get Credit Counseling Challenging situations are always easier when you have some support. Working with a reputable nonprofit credit counseling agency can help you get your credit back on track and keep it there. Credit counselors go over your finances with you and help create a plan to tackle financial issues such as budgeting, managing money and paying off debt. The National Foundation for Credit Counseling and the Financial Counseling Association of America provide lists that are good places to start searching for a certified credit counselor. Learn more: What Is Credit Counseling? The Bottom Line Remember, credit repair companies can't do anything for you that you can't do on your own and for free. The best way to repair your credit is to focus on good credit management. You can sign up for free credit monitoring through Experian and check your report regularly to see what's impacting your score. Rebuilding your credit takes time, but be patient and you could see positive results. In addition to the steps above, consider
