---
source_url: https://www.equifax.com/personal/education/credit-cards/articles/-/learn/what-are-pre-approved-credit-cards/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:04:20.675146+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
bank or credit company survey. The lender may then suggest you provide additional information so the lender can obtain your credit information and decide whether to extend an offer based on your credit information. It’s important to note that pre-approved and pre-qualified offers do not guarantee that you’ll ultimately be approved for a new credit card. They simply mean that you have met at least some of the criteria required for approval. Card issuers generally reserve the right to deny your application pending an additional inquiry into your credit history, although the rules for approving applications from the pre-approved card offers are more stringent. Does pre-approval affect my credit scores? When credit card companies seek candidates for pre-approved offers, they ask the three nationwide consumer reporting agencies (CRAs) — Equifax, TransUnion and Experian — for your financial details. These credit checks are considered “soft inquiries,” and they will not impact your credit scores. Once you decide to apply for a pre-approved offer, however, the application permits the lender to obtain additional credit information and will likely perform a “hard inquiry.” Hard inquiries, which do impact your credit scores, help lenders keep a timeline of how often you’ve applied for credit. Each hard inquiry may temporarily decrease your credit scores and will stay on your credit report for up to two years. It’s important to apply only for cards you are serious about, as multiple applications submitted over a short time can trigger an influx of hard inquiries that may lower your credit scores and impact your ability to borrow in the future. Why am I receiving pre-approved credit card offers? Credit card companies send pre-approved offers only to people they think are likely to qualify for the terms of their card. So, if you’ve received one, the issuer already has much of the information they need to determine if you’re a good candidate, such as your credit scores and details about loans, mortgages and other aspects of your credit history. Much of that information comes from the three nationwide CRAs in the form of your credit report, which the lender uses to evaluate your financial health and creditworthiness. If you meet their initial qualifications for pre-approval, card issuers then send a pre-approved offer in the mail. This is called a firm credit offer, which means the lender is legally required to fulfill the terms they offer you. If you decide you want to proceed, you’ll still need to apply for final approval. This last step gives lenders an opportunity to review financial information or other pertinent information that is not included in your credit report before making a final decision. Are pre-approved credit cards right for me? You should only consider adding a new credit card to your wallet if it makes sense for your unique financial situation. If you’re unsure whether a pre-approved offer could be right for you, be sure to weigh the pros and cons. Keep in mind that pre-approved offers are essentially advertisements for specific cards, so you might not be getting the best terms and rates the company has to offer. Because you’ll only receive offers from some credit card companies, you may also miss good deals from their competitors, so don’t hesitate to research alternatives. It’s also critical to make sure you know exactly why you want the card. Are you looking to rebuild your credit? Then keep an eye out for offers with a low annual percentage rate (APR) to save on interest. Are you on the hunt for a good rewards program? Then look for a card that offers points or cash back. A pre-approved offer may or may not meet your particular needs, so it’s important to consider your options. Thorough research and careful comparisons can help you evaluate the differences and choose the type of card that’s best for you.
