---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/credit/credit-score/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:00:57.817188+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 21:35:42 GMT
---
bills on time: As payment history is the biggest factor in your FICOÂ® Score, this will help move the needle the most. If youâve been on time with your payments up until now, great. If not, start making sure that youâre paying all your bills on timeâlate or missed payments can stay on your credit report forÂ 7 years. Over time, a late payment will decrease in impact, but several missed payments in a row or late payments on multiple accounts can hurt your credit. Catching up on past-due accounts: Even if you missed a payment before, getting all your accounts up to date can help improve your credit score. This will also prevent more late payments from being added to your credit history. Qualifying for new credit with a late payment on your credit report will depend on the lender and how much time has passed since your late payment. Some lenders might approve you sooner, but interest rates and terms may not be as favorable as theyâd be for someone with exceptional credit. Paying down your current accounts: Even if you arenât late or missing payments, paying down more of your account balances will decrease your credit utilization, which could improve your credit scores. In general,Â under 30% credit utilizationÂ is recommended, but under 10% indicates optimal credit management and can help your credit scores. Limiting how often you apply for new credit: Applying for new credit can lead to a hard inquiry, which could temporarily decrease your credit scores. One or two hard inquiries during the normal course of applying for a loan can have an almost negligible effect on your credit scores, butÂ many hard inquiriesÂ outside of rate shopping could indicate a higher credit risk. Adding bills youâre already paying: WithÂ Experian BoostÂ®, you can add on-time payments from your utility, cell phone and streaming service bills to help increase your credit score.Â 60% of Americans have seen their FICOÂ® Score increase by an average of 12 points. How can you improve your credit score if you have bad credit? If you have bad credit, you should first check your free credit report and score to find what factors are affecting it the most. This will show you where you can make the biggestÂ improvements to a bad credit score. Youâll be able to see the factors that are both helping and hurting your credit. If you have excellent credit, what can you do to maintain it? If you already have excellent credit, you canÂ maintain your credit scoreÂ by continuing to pay all of your bills on time, maintaining a credit utilization below 10%, keeping your oldest accounts open and only applying for new credit when needed. No one likes to see theirÂ credit scores drop. But understanding the factors that affect your credit could help you get back on track. Credit scores continually change as your creditors provide information to your credit file. Small drops in your credit scores shouldnât cause any alarm, but if you see a significant decrease to your credit scores it could be for one of the following reasons: Late or missing payments: Your payment history is the biggest factor in your FICOÂ®Â Score. A single late payment will impact your scores, but over time, its impact on your credit will decline. Multiple missed payments can significantly damage your credit, andÂ contacting your lenderÂ before that happens could help your situation. Managing your debt properly will only benefit your credit scores. In fact, most consumers who have the highest credit scores and pay their bills on time have theÂ highest average amount of debt. Credit utilization increased: By using more of your credit youâll increase your credit utilization ratio, which is the second most important factor in calculating your FICOÂ®Â Score. To calculate your credit utilization, add up the
