---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/20-types-of-identity-theft-and-fraud/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:50.839144+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:18:50 GMT
---
20 Different Types of Identity Theft and Fraud Quick Answer Common types of identity theft and fraud include account takeover fraud, online shopping fraud and mail identity theft. Knowing the variety of scams and fraud can help you stay safe and protect credit cards, Social Security numbers, personal IDs and other information criminals can use to abuse your credit and steal your money. Identity theft and related fraud take many forms, and in 2023, these crimes racked up losses of more than $10 billion in the U.S., according to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). Familiarity with these scams can help you recognize them before you or a loved one become a victimâor minimize the damage if your personal information is misused. Note that these forms of fraud are not mutually exclusive: Criminals can use one form of crime to obtain data that enables others. So it's important to protect personal information and to maintain vigilance if you suspect your personal data has been exposed. Here are 20 different types of identity theft and fraud to know about: Account takeover fraud - Debit card fraud or credit card fraud - Driver's license identity theft - Mail identity theft - Online shopping fraud - Social Security number identity theft - Senior identity theft and scams - Child identity theft - Tax identity theft - Biometric identity theft - Synthetic identity theft - Medical identity theft - Mortgage fraud - Home title fraud - Passport fraud - Internet of things identity theft - Friendly fraud - Employment fraud - Unemployment fraud - Crypto fraud - 1. Account Takeover Fraud In account takeover fraud, criminals use stolen personal information such as account numbers, usernames or passwords to hijack bank accounts, credit cards, cellular phone services and/or email or social media accounts. How this type of fraud happens: Crooks access victims' accounts using stolen credentials. Then, they change the password, email, street address or phone number associated with the account, preventing the owner from accessing it. How to avoid it: Get in the habit of checking your social and financial apps or web dashboards regularly. You can use the opportunity to check for unusual transactions, and if you can't get access to your account, notify the provider immediately. When available, use multifactor authentication or biometric login procedures to hinder unauthorized account access. Consider using a password manager to generate and remember strong, random passwords, and change your passwords and PINs regularly: Experts recommend updating them as often as once every 90 days, or anytime you think one might have been compromised. Learn more: Should I Use a Password Manager? 2. Debit Card Fraud or Credit Card Fraud In debit and credit card fraud, criminals use stolen financial information to make unauthorized purchases or access funds from your account. How this type of fraud happens: Using stolen account information, criminals make unauthorized debit card or credit card purchases or withdraw funds. Then, they leave you (or your financial institution) on the hook for the stolen funds. How to avoid it: Keep close watch on your credit and debit cards to minimize the chances of loss or theft, and so you'll know quickly if they go missing. Lock cards as soon as you suspect they've been misplaced, and request replacements if you don't locate them quickly. Study your card and checking statements carefully for signs of unauthorized use. Note that tiny transactions can occur when thieves link your account to their own accounts and may be precursors to more substantial withdrawals or funds transfers. Learn more: How to Freeze a Credit Card 3. Driver's License Identity Theft Driver's license identity theft is when a criminal uses your driver's license to impersonate you. How this type of fraud happens: Your driver's license contains personally identifiable information (PII) that identity thieves can use to impersonate you or commit financial
