---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/credit-education/preventing-fraud/security-freeze/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:59:01.596650+00:00
last_updated: Sun, 08 Feb 2026 15:19:11 GMT
---
your credit, you'll have to thaw each report separately, and you can do this online, by phone or by mail. You'll also be able to choose between a: Permanent thaw: Unfreeze the report indefinitely. - Temporary thaw: Schedule when you want your report to be unfrozen and refrozen. - Unfreezing your report by phone or online might take a few minutes, although it often happens nearly instantaneously. Legally, the bureaus have up to an hour to lift a freeze. Scheduling a temporary thaw could be the easiest option. You can schedule thaws for when you know you're going to apply for a new account, and then have your reports automatically refrozen the next day. How to Freeze Your Child's Credit Many children don't have a credit report unless their parents added them as an authorized user on a credit card. However, the lack of credit history and credit monitoring can actually make children a target for identity thieves. In cases of child identity theft, a criminal might use the child's personal information to get services or open credit accounts in the child's name. And the fraud might go undetected if no one monitors the child's credit. Similar to freezing your own credit reports, freezing your child's credit reports can limit access to the reports and protect them from fraud. If your child doesn't have a credit report, the credit bureau can create their report before freezing it. You can go to Experian's Child Identity Theft Protection center to learn more about the process and check if your child has an Experian credit report. Learn more: How Do I See if My Child Has a Credit Report? Frequently Asked Questions Continue Monitoring Your Credit Reports Regularly monitoring your credit reports for changes can be important even if your reports are frozen. Some creditors might not review your credit reports during the application process but still report the opened account to the bureaus; looking for these new accounts could help you detect credit fraud. You can check your FICOÂ® ScoreÎ and report for free and report for free from Experian and get real-time alerts about important changes to your credit. Freeze your credit file for free A security freeze, often known as a credit freeze, limits access to your Experian credit reportâhelping protect you against identity theft. Create a free accountAbout the author Louis DeNicola is freelance personal finance and credit writer who works with Fortune 500 financial services firms, FinTech startups, and non-profits to teach people about money and credit. His clients include BlueVine, Discover, LendingTree, Money Management International, U.S News and Wirecutter. Read more from Louis
