---
source_url: https://www.experian.com/loans/personal/quick-loans/
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:58:54.288101+00:00
last_updated: Fri, 06 Feb 2026 16:22:33 GMT
---
---|---| Est. monthly payment | $54 - $723 | ---|---| You could save up to $151* with a low, fixed-rate quick personal loan High-interest credit card | Quick loan | ---|---| Balance | $1,000 | $1,000 | ---|---|---| Monthly payment | $55for 24 months | $48for 24 months | ---|---|---| Average interest rate | 27.30% | 14.48% | ---|---|---| Total paid with interest | $1,309 | $1,158 | ---|---|---| *Estimated interest savings: $151 | Experian could help find the quick loan for you Itâs free Check your loan options for freeâit wonât hurt your credit scores. Save on fees Get matched to lenders that offer no application fees and no prepayment penalties. Look for these labels on your matched loan offers. Great rates We can help you get the best rates and terms for the loan youâre looking for. Get cash fast at competitive rates Compare rates across multiple lenders and get your loan fastâwith same-day funding available. Get prequalified Find out how much you can borrow before you apply. Getting prequalified helps you better compare options. Loans from $1,000 to $250,000 From small loans to funding a big project that fit your budget and needs. Why trust Experian for quick loans? Shop trusted lenders all in one place Experian works with reputable lenders to provide consumers with the best options. Our model Experian offers loan options tailored to your credit profile that could improve your chances for approval. Security Experian uses bank-level encryption and data protection to keep your information safe.
