---
source_url: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/fcra-may2023-508.pdf
authority_level: primary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T07:57:17.580141+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 04 May 2023 18:34:43 GMT
---
and procedures, as necessary to ensure that such person complies with such paragraph. § 623 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2 87 § 622. Information on overdue child support obligations [15 U.S.C. § 1681s-1] Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, a consumer reporting agency shall include in any consumer report furnished by the agency in accordance with section 604 [§ 1681b] of this title, any information on the failure of the consumer to pay overdue support which (1) is provided (A) to the consumer reporting agency by a State or local child support enforcement agency; or (B) to the consumer reporting agency and verified by any local, State, or Federal government agency; and (2) antedates the report by 7 years or less. § 623. Responsibilities of furnishers of information to consumer reporting agencies [15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2] (a) Duty of Furnishers of Information to Provide Accurate Information (1) Prohibition (A) Reporting information with actual knowledge of errors. A person shall not furnish any information relating to a consumer to any consumer reporting agency if the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the information is inaccurate. (B) Reporting information after notice and confirmation of errors. A person shall not furnish information relating to a consumer to any consumer reporting agency if (i) the person has been notified by the consumer, at the address specified by the person for such notices, that specific information is inaccurate; and (ii) the information is, in fact, inaccurate. (C) No address requirement. A person who clearly and conspicu - ously specifies to the consumer an address for notices referred to in subparagraph (B) shall not be subject to subparagraph (A); however, nothing in subparagraph (B) shall require a person to specify such an address. (D) Definition. For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term “reasonable cause to believe that the information is inaccurate” 88§ 623 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2 means having specific knowledge, other than solely allegations by the consumer, that would cause a reasonable person to have substantial doubts about the accuracy of the information. (E) Rehabilitation of private education loans. (i) In general. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a consumer may request a financial institution to remove from a consumer report a reported default regarding a private education loan, and such information shall not be considered inaccurate, if (I) the financial institution chooses to offer a loan rehabilitation program which includes, without limitation, a requirement of the consumer to make consecutive on-time monthly payments in a number that demonstrates, in the assessment of the financial institution offering the loan rehabilitation program, a renewed ability and willingness to repay the loan; and (II) the requirements of the loan rehabilitation program described in subclause (I) are successfully met. (ii) Banking agencies. (I) In general. If a financial institution is supervised by a Federal banking agency, the financial institution shall seek written approval concerning the terms and conditions of the loan rehabilitation program described in clause (i) from the appropriate Federal banking agency. (II) Feedback. An appropriate Federal banking agency shall provide feedback to a financial institution within 120 days of a request for approval under subclause (I). (iii) Limitation. (I) In general. A consumer may obtain the benefits available under this subsection with respect to rehabilitating a loan only 1 time per loan. (II) Rule of construction. Nothing in this subparagraph may be construed to require a financial institution to offer a loan rehabilitation program or to remove any reported default from a consumer report as a consideration of a loan rehabilitation program, except as described in clause (i). § 623 - 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2 89 (iv) Definitions. For purposes of this subparagraph (I) the term ‘appropriate Federal banking agency’ has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813); and (II)
