---
source_url: https://www.investopedia.com/about-us-5093223
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:07:30.804674+00:00
last_updated: unknown
---
to our brand. So too is our commitment to accountability to our readers and transparency about our accuracy and corrections practices. Our rich library of “evergreen” content is routinely updated and fact-checked to ensure ongoing publication of accurate, complete, relevant, and up-to-date useful information. Following our rigorous and systematic updating and verification process, articles in our content library are date-stamped to indicate to readers that the information is complete and accurate. News articles often cover a distinct event in time and are not part of our routine update process. At Investopedia, we are committed to telling readers when an error has appeared, and to correcting it. When we discover a significant error of fact in an article, we will correct the article as quickly as possible and append a correction note. All corrections will be clearly labeled, dated, and include information about what was corrected. We welcome our readers’ participation in our ongoing commitment to accuracy and fact-checking. If you believe we have published a factual error in any of our content, please let us know and we will investigate and take appropriate corrective and/or updating measures. To report a possible error of fact, please visit our Contact Us page and select Article Update - Corrections. Management Team Investopedia is part of the People Inc. publishing family and operates under the leadership of CEO Neil Vogel. Dylan Zurawell General Manager Dylan is the General Manager of Investopedia and is responsible for Investopedia's strategy and operations. He joined Investopedia in 2011 as a Product Manager and over the following six years held successively senior roles in product, operations, and marketing before becoming Investopedia's GM in 2018. Read more Katherine Divney Chief Revenue Officer As Chief Revenue Officer, Katherine oversees the sales, marketing, and client services teams responsible for delivering best-in-class media partnerships for our clients spanning all areas of the Financial Services Industry. Prior to joining Investopedia, Katherine held leadership roles in financial media sales as SVP Sales at Seeking Alpha, Executive Director at The Wall Street Digital, and Sales Director at MarketWatch. Katherine sits on the Executive Board of Directors for the Financial Communications Society. Katherine holds a B.A. in History & Psychology from Boston College. She resides in White Plains, NY with her husband and three children. Read more Caleb Silver Chief Business Editor, Editor in Chief Caleb has been the Editor in Chief of Investopedia since 2016, and was announced as People Inc.'s Chief Business Editor in 2025. He is an award-winning media executive with more than 20 years of experience in business news, digital publishing, and documentaries. Caleb is the on the Board of Governors and Executive Committee of SABEW (Society for Advancing Business Editing & Writing), and his awards include a Peabody, EPPY, SABEW Best in Business, and two Emmy nominations. Read more Michael Capecci VP, Marketing (Sales) As VP of Marketing, Michael oversees all aspects of ad sales marketing targeting the financial services industry. Prior to this, Michael was the VP, Product Sales & Strategy at Seeking Alpha, overseeing the custom solutions team. Michael made the move to the financial world in 2006 when he joined Bloomberg, where he spent more than seven years directing digital sales, first on the West Coast and then in the Northeast. Michael holds a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies from Fordham University. Read more Alexandra Kerr Senior Director, Brand Communications & Marketing Alexandra oversees media appearances, social media, and data journalism for earned media for the finance brands at People Inc. She previously served as Investopedia's senior video producer, overseeing all on-camera interviews and branded video series for some of the country's top financial institutions. Read more About People Inc. People Inc. is the largest digital and print publisher in America. From mobile to magazines, nearly 200 million people trust us to help them make decisions, take action,
