---
source_url: https://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution-conan/article-1/section-4/clause-1/states-and-elections-clause
authority_level: secondary
jurisdiction: US
retrieved_at: 2026-02-09T08:09:24.381205+00:00
last_updated: Thu, 06 Mar 2025 19:37:48 GMT
---
the bounds of ordinary judicial review as to unconstitutionally intrude upon the role specifically reserved to state legislatures by Article I, Section 4, of the Federal Constitution. Because we need not decide whether that occurred in today’s case, the judgment of the North Carolina Supreme Court is affirmed.” Id. at 30. - 30 - No. 13-1314 (2015). - 31 - Id. at 2–3. - 32 - Id. - 33 - Id. at 2. - 34 - Id. at 18. The Court also found that the use of the commission was permissible under 2 U.S.C. § 2a (c), a statutory provision that the Court construed as safeguarding to “each state full authority to employ in the creation of congressional districts its own laws and regulations.” Id. at 19. - 35 - Id. at 18. - 36 - Id. See also Ohio ex rel. Davis v. Hildebrant, 241 U.S. 565, 568 (1916) (holding that a state’s referendum system to override redistricting legislation “was contained within the legislative power,” rejecting the argument that the referendum was not part of the “Legislature” ). - 37 - Arizona, No. 13-1314, slip op. at 24 (noting that “dictionaries, even those in circulation during the founding era, capaciously define the word ‘legislature’” to include as “[t]he power that makes laws” and “the Authority of making laws” ). - 38 - Id. at 25 ( “The dominant purpose of the Elections Clause . . . was to empower Congress to override state election rules, not to restrict the way States enact legislation. . . . [T]he Clause ‘was the Framers’ insurance against the possibility that a State would refuse to provide for the election of representatives to the Federal Congress.’” ). - 39 - Id. at 30 ( “The Framers may not have imagined the modern initiative process in which the people of a State exercise legislative power coextensive with the authority of an institutional legislature. But the invention of the initiative was in full harmony with the Constitution’s conception of the people as the font of governmental power.” ). - 40 - Id. at 31, 33 (noting that it would be “perverse” to interpret the term “Legislature” to exclude the initiative, because the initiative is intended to check legislators’ ability to determine the boundaries of the districts in which they run, and that a contrary ruling would invalidate a number of other state provisions regarding initiatives and referendums). -
